Living On Campus

acceleRATE Program

acceleRATE Summer Program

Residents currently living on campus during the 2026 Spring Quarter will be part of the HDH acceleRATE Summer Program designed to help current UC San Diego student’s progress towards their degree more affordably. All summer housing residents must be enrolled in order to be eligible for on campus housing.

Residents currently living on campus during the 2026 Spring Quarter will be part of the HDH acceleRATE Summer Program designed to help current UC San Diego student’s progress towards their degree more affordably. All summer housing residents must be enrolled in order to be eligible for on campus housing.

Designed for current housing residents (meaning they live on-campus during Spring Quarter) who will be enrolled in UC San Diego Summer Session

Designed for current housing residents (meaning they live on-campus during Spring Quarter) who will be enrolled in UC San Diego Summer Session

Deadline to apply for Session I housing is June 10th. Move-in would be scheduled for June 27, 2026.

Deadline to apply for Session II housing is July 13th. Move-In would be scheduled for August 1, 2026. acceleRATE Sample Housing Contract, Payment Schedule, and Optional Dining Rate

acceleRATE Sample Housing Contract, Payment Schedule, and Optional Dining Rate

UC San Diego Housing Cost and Payment Schedule 2026 Accelerate Program Summer Housing

Sample Housing Contract: UC San Diego Single Undergraduate Residential Housing Contract, acceleRATE Program Summer Housing 2026

Cancellation fee of $150.00 applies to cancellations received after student has completed the housing contract process. Review the Summer 2026 Cancellation Policy below.

Summer Housing is billed weekly. Students who cancel or terminate their housing contract will incur charges up to the Saturday of the week in which they move out.

Summer 2026 Housing Rate: $39.25/night for single occupancy bedroom $33.60/night for double occupancy bedroom

$39.25/night for single occupancy bedroom

$33.60/night for double occupancy bedroom

Optional Dining : You can select from the available dining plan during the contracting process for the following amounts: Blue Dining Plan: $28.40/day The Summer Dining Plan cannot be changed to a lesser value, transferred, dropped, or refunded. Student is encouraged to use all summer dining funds prior to the end of their acceleRATE Summer Housing Contract. Student may request in writing to opt out of the optional dining plan no later than one week or seven (7) calendar days from the start date of their housing contract by contacting housingcontracts@ucsd.edu with their request prior to the deadline. For example, a student moving in for Summer Session I on June 27th must submit their request no later than 11:59PM (PST) on July 4th.

Blue Dining Plan: $28.40/day

The Summer Dining Plan cannot be changed to a lesser value, transferred, dropped, or refunded. Student is encouraged to use all summer dining funds prior to the end of their acceleRATE Summer Housing Contract.

Student may request in writing to opt out of the optional dining plan no later than one week or seven (7) calendar days from the start date of their housing contract by contacting housingcontracts@ucsd.edu with their request prior to the deadline. For example, a student moving in for Summer Session I on June 27th must submit their request no later than 11:59PM (PST) on July 4th.

Weekly custodial services are not included in the housing rates.

Academic Disqualification Spring Quarter/Summer Housing 2026

Pre Move-In (Contract Cancellation): For those students who have already contracted and submitted their prepayment for summer housing but have not yet taken residency , you are required to cancel your summer housing within seven days of notification from your academic office .

You will not be charged a cancellation fee and your prepayment will be refunded back to you.  To request cancellation of your summer housing contract, students will need to request a contract cancellation through the Summer Housing Portal on the homepage.

After Move-In (Contract Termination): Students who have taken occupancy of their summer residence and whose appeal has been denied must move out of their summer allocation .  Students will be charged for any housing charges incurred while living on campus.  Summer housing is not pro-rated daily, but rather students will be charged in full week increments.  Student’s prepayment will go towards their housing charges.  Students will need to request a contract termination within seven days of notification from your academic office. Click on the Summer Housing Portal on the homepage to start your request for a contract cancellation.

CANCELLATION of Summer Housing Contract

Review the UC San Diego Summer Housing Cancellation Policy, Summer 2026 .

Prior to your move-in date and before you take occupancy, if you wish to cancel your housing contract you must notify HDH and the Summer Housing Team by logging into the Summer Housing Portal and clicking on the “Summer Housing Application, Checklist, FAQ, Change and Cancellation Requests” link.

Students will be assessed a cancellation fee in the amount of $150.00. Cancellation of this contract will be effective upon receipt of the request. Resident agrees to pay the cancellation fee as specified in the UC San Diego Summer Housing Cancellation Policy .

Policy Limitation: This policy no longer applies once a student checks in, obtains keys, or reaches their contract start date (whichever occurs first). After this point, Section 8 – “Termination” applies.

Assurance of Accommodation

Resident shall be assured of accommodations when resident receives a confirmation email from summerhousing@ucsd.edu upon completing the housing contract process and is enrolled in Summer Session 2026 class(es).

Eligibility, Contract Process / Pre-Payment

Residents currently living on campus during Spring Quarter 2026 will be part of the HDH acceleRATE Summer Program designed to help current UC San Diego student’s progress towards their degree more affordably. All summer housing residents must be enrolled in order to be eligible for on campus housing.

All summer housing residents must be enrolled in order to be eligible for on campus housing. The acceleRATE Summer Program does not require a mandatory dining plan and does not include custodial services.

UC San Diego Internships

If you are participating in an internship where you will receive credit towards your degree, you will qualify for on campus housing under the acceleRATE Summer Program.

UC San Diego students participating in paid internships with the university are not eligible for summer in on campus housing.

Contract Process & Pre-Payment

Your housing application will be processed within 5-7 business days after being received by the Summer Housing Team. After, you will receive an email with the contract link and instructions in order to sign your housing contract. Once your contract has been signed, you will receive another email with the link to submit a prepayment in the amount of $150.00 via E-check. This $150.00 prepayment cannot be paid via your student account on Triton Link , as there will not be a charge on your student account. Instead, you will be directed to a secure third-party site to make the prepayment. Please make sure that you have the following information ready to make your e-check payment: name of the bank account holder, bank account number, and routing number. You also have the option to pay by Credit Card. You will have three days from the time that you receive the payment link to submit your prepayment. Failure to submit your prepayment within the given deadline of three days will result in your application being considered null and void by the Summer Housing Team. If you are having problems with the contracting process, please email the Summer Housing Team at summerhousing@ucsd.edu with your name and your PID.

Early Move-In (Pre-Regular Session)

Students currently housed on campus during the 2026 Spring Quarter are also eligible to contract for the early move-in session: June 17th through June 26th .

Students will be authorized to stay in their current space the evening of Saturday, June 13th through Wednesday, June 17th. The first day of your contract begins on Sunday, June 14th; however, students will not move to their summer  space until Wednesday, June 17th. Move-in times will be assigned or available to select into. Students who are unable to move out of their current academic space and move in to their summer allocation during the designated day and timeframe given will not be able to contract for the early move-in session. There will be no exceptions.

The deadline to apply for the early move-in session is Friday, May 23nd.

Students will receive specific instructions for move-in based on Campus policies.

Cancellation of the Early Move-In Session ONLY

Students wishing to drop the early move-in session only while keeping their regular session may do so without penalty through May 23nd. Student’s dropping early move in session only, must log into the Summer Housing Portal and clicking on the “Summer Housing Application, Checklist, FAQ, Change and Cancellation Requests link”. Students failing to notify the university that they are no longer contracting for this session by May 22nd will be assessed a cancellation fee in the amount of $150.00.

Students dropping the early move in session may be subject to a change in room assignment.

Living On Campus

Summer Housing will reside at Marshall College - Ridge Walk Living Learning Neighborhood.  acceleRATE students will be assigned to spaces in the apartments.

Additional information on mail, laundry, and campus details will continue to be updated.

Marshall College apartments consists of apartments with limited single and double room options for 8-10 students.  All apartments are shared with a common living room, kitchen, and bathroom.

Students are responsible for cleaning their unit (kitchen, bathroom, bedroom, etc.) as custodial services are not offered. This includes bringing your own toilet paper, paper towel, garbage bags and removing trash.

Priority Deadlines

Priority Deadlines

Summer Housing Session

Priority Deadline**

Early Move-In Session

1st 5 Week Session

Extend SSI Session

2nd 5 Week Session

**The Housing Office requests that you submit your summer housing application by the priority deadline ONLY in order to better honor your preferences (i.e. session dates, room preference, etc.). If you miss the priority deadline to apply for your chosen session, you may still apply and be housed on campus if there is space, however the Summer Allocations Office may not be able to place you in your preferred room space.

Optional Summer Dining Offering

Optional Summer Dining

The acceleRATE Summer Housing Program does not require dining. We are providing an optional dining offering for students who desire one for the duration of their summer housing. Please keep in mind when deciding about whether dining is an option for you, that not all dining facilities will be open throughout the summer and the hours of operation will be fluid. In addition, if you are currently housed on campus and have dining dollars left at the end of spring quarter, you will be able to use those extra dining dollars throughout the summer and even through the upcoming fall quarter.

If you select summer dining, you will be able to dine at an open restaurant and/or HDH markets only when those facilities are open during the summer.  The summer dining plan is a declining balance. When dining at a UC San Diego dining facility you must identify yourself as “summer session” to the cashier when paying for your meal.

Check out our UC San Diego Dining Services locations for the duration of your summer stay. A request to change your summer dining plan can be submitted up to 1 week after you take occupancy of your summer space.

Summer Dining Info!

acceleRATE Assignment Process

Assignment Process

As an acceleRATE summer housing applicant you will be able to submit your room type preference and roommate requests.  Housing will assign you to your space.

Students wishing to room with another student will need to communicate with potential apartment-mates in order to request to live together.  It is highly suggested that students wishing to room together in an apartments or suite, apply and complete the contract process around the same time in order to better your chances of being assigned together in the same apartment. Roommate requests are typically for requesting roommates within the same room (Double rooms at Marshall). If you are hoping to request apartment mates as well, email ucsdhousing@ucsd.edu to make your reqeust. Roommate preferences and requests are not guaranteed .

All students living on campus for Summer Housing 2026 will be housed in mostly in double rooms as there are limited single occupancy bedroom available.

Extended Housing

Extended Housing Program (Post Summer Housing / Pre-Academic school year)

Please check out the program details here: Extended Housing

Undergrad Housing

Summer Housing acceleRATE Traditional Summer Success Short-Term Transition

Short-Term Transition

Please visit the Summer Session website to view classes offered this summer.