Coffee With a Prof

Coffee With a Prof

Meet with a professor or graduate teaching assistant (TA) of your choice, and learn more about your course or area of study.

The Coffee-with-a-Prof program allows you, the student, to meet and have coffee with an esteemed faculty member or graduate teaching assistant in order to gather insight concerning a course or career opportunities in your field of study. This is a complimentary program provided by the undergraduate colleges.

Undergraduate students may participate in the Coffee-with-a-Prof program once per quarter during the academic year. The program is not available through summer sessions.

How to participate

Contact your professor or graduate teaching assistant and extend a meeting invitation. Work together to choose a date, time, and location to meet over coffee. Please note that all meetings should be scheduled between weeks 5-10 of the quarter. Your application must be submitted at least 1 week prior to the meeting date See lists of approved coffee locations below Use the invitation example below, if needed

Contact your professor or graduate teaching assistant and extend a meeting invitation. Work together to choose a date, time, and location to meet over coffee. Please note that all meetings should be scheduled between weeks 5-10 of the quarter.

Your application must be submitted at least 1 week prior to the meeting date

See lists of approved coffee locations below

Use the invitation example below, if needed

After your professor or TA has confirmed the details, complete and submit the online application below to sign up for the program.

After your professor or TA has confirmed the details, complete and submit the online application below to sign up for the program.

Your college will contact you once your application is complete, and let you know when you can pick up your voucher. The voucher will look like a gift card and is your “ticket” to complimentary coffee for you and your professor/TA. Your professor or TA will need to be present to redeem your coffee at a participating location. Vouchers will be available for distribution at your college between week 3-4. If you do not pick-up your voucher within 2 business days after your college has let you know it was ready, your voucher will be forfeited. Note that each college has varying hours of operation and a slightly different process for distributing vouchers. Wait for the instructions from your college — they will let you know when your application is approved and your voucher is ready. Your application must be submitted at least 1 week prior to the meeting date. Revelle College Administration: Galbraith Hall 350 , contact redean@ucsd.edu John Muir College: Office of Student Affairs, contact mdeansoffice@ucsd.edu Thurgood Marshall College: Office of Student Affairs, contact tmcstudentaffairs@ucsd.edu Earl Warren College: Office of Student Affairs: EBU3B Room 1148 , contact warrendean@ucsd.edu Eleanor Roosevelt College: Roosevelt Administration Building , contact ercprovost@ucsd.edu Sixth College: Sixth Administration Building, contact sixthsa@ucsd.edu Seventh College: The Gallery (above Seventh College Market), contact seventhprovost@ucsd.edu Eighth College: Podemos at the front desk, on the 2nd floor by the Provost’s Suite; contact eighthstudentaffairs@ucsd.edu

Your college will contact you once your application is complete, and let you know when you can pick up your voucher.

The voucher will look like a gift card and is your “ticket” to complimentary coffee for you and your professor/TA.

The voucher will look like a gift card and is your “ticket” to complimentary coffee for you and your professor/TA.

Your professor or TA will need to be present to redeem your coffee at a participating location.

Your professor or TA will need to be present to redeem your coffee at a participating location.

Vouchers will be available for distribution at your college between week 3-4. If you do not pick-up your voucher within 2 business days after your college has let you know it was ready, your voucher will be forfeited.

Vouchers will be available for distribution at your college between week 3-4. If you do not pick-up your voucher within 2 business days after your college has let you know it was ready, your voucher will be forfeited.

Note that each college has varying hours of operation and a slightly different process for distributing vouchers. Wait for the instructions from your college — they will let you know when your application is approved and your voucher is ready. Your application must be submitted at least 1 week prior to the meeting date. Revelle College Administration: Galbraith Hall 350 , contact redean@ucsd.edu John Muir College: Office of Student Affairs, contact mdeansoffice@ucsd.edu Thurgood Marshall College: Office of Student Affairs, contact tmcstudentaffairs@ucsd.edu Earl Warren College: Office of Student Affairs: EBU3B Room 1148 , contact warrendean@ucsd.edu Eleanor Roosevelt College: Roosevelt Administration Building , contact ercprovost@ucsd.edu Sixth College: Sixth Administration Building, contact sixthsa@ucsd.edu Seventh College: The Gallery (above Seventh College Market), contact seventhprovost@ucsd.edu Eighth College: Podemos at the front desk, on the 2nd floor by the Provost’s Suite; contact eighthstudentaffairs@ucsd.edu

Note that each college has varying hours of operation and a slightly different process for distributing vouchers. Wait for the instructions from your college — they will let you know when your application is approved and your voucher is ready. Your application must be submitted at least 1 week prior to the meeting date.

Revelle College Administration: Galbraith Hall 350 , contact redean@ucsd.edu

John Muir College: Office of Student Affairs, contact mdeansoffice@ucsd.edu

Thurgood Marshall College: Office of Student Affairs, contact tmcstudentaffairs@ucsd.edu

Earl Warren College: Office of Student Affairs: EBU3B Room 1148 , contact warrendean@ucsd.edu

Eleanor Roosevelt College: Roosevelt Administration Building , contact ercprovost@ucsd.edu

Sixth College: Sixth Administration Building, contact sixthsa@ucsd.edu

Seventh College: The Gallery (above Seventh College Market), contact seventhprovost@ucsd.edu

Eighth College: Podemos at the front desk, on the 2nd floor by the Provost’s Suite; contact eighthstudentaffairs@ucsd.edu

After you pick up the voucher, confirm the meeting time with your professor/TA and then meet up! Redeem your voucher at one of the authorized locations. Your professor or TA must be present. Turn in the voucher to the vendor to redeem your coffee.

After your professor or TA has confirmed they can attend with you, complete the online application below. Your application must be submitted at least 1 week prior to the meeting date.

Coffee-with-a-Prof Locations

Check the appropriate website for hours of operation .

The Art of Espresso (Muir/ Mandeville Center)

Earl's at Canyon Vista Marketplace

John’s Market (Muir)

MOM’s Cafe (Muir/Middle of Muir)

Roger’s Market (Revelle)

Sixth Market (Sixth)

Starbucks (University Center/ Price Center West)

The Market @ Seventh (Seventh)

Example Invitation

Dear Professor or TA,

I am currently a student in your X course. Would you be interested in meeting me for coffee this quarter? I would like to learn more about your research and how you got started in your field. There is a great program, Coffee-with-a-Prof, which allows us each a complimentary coffee or pastry while we meet. I look forward to hearing from you.

Frequently Asked Questions

Who is eligible to participate?

Student eligibility: The program is open to all currently enrolled UC San Diego undergraduate students. If more than one student (up to 3 students) would like to join a meeting, each student must complete the application and pick up a separate voucher at their college.

Faculty eligibility: The professor or graduate teaching assistant must be currently employed by the University. They cannot be staff, administrative advisors, or counselors.

Can multiple students take the same professor out to coffee together?

Yes, students may coordinate up to 3 people per meeting. Each student must complete the application in order to obtain their own voucher from their respective college to participate.

Can I participate in the program more than once per academic year?

Undergraduate students may participate in the Coffee-with-a-Prof program once per quarter during the academic year. The program is not available through summer sessions.

Is there a deadline to register or use the voucher?

Register using the online form by Week 5 of each quarter. Redeem your voucher by the last Friday of the quarter.

What if I am not currently enrolled in a class with a professor or TA that I am interested in meeting — can I still invite them?

Yes, the professor or TA must be currently employed by the university.

Something came up and I need to reschedule. What should I do?

As long as you use the voucher before the end of the quarter, there is no issue. If you are not able to reschedule during the quarter, contact your College to make arrangements.

My voucher has been lost or stolen — can I get a replacement?

No, we cannot give out replacement vouchers, as they are limited.

How should I decide at which location to get coffee?

Ask your professor or TA if they have a preference and also select a location based on your comfort level.

My professor/TA and I can't meet anymore. What should I do with the voucher?

If you're unable to use the voucher with your professor or TA, please return it to your College to allow another student the opportunity to use it.

If you have questions, email your college:

Revelle: redean@ucsd.edu

Muir: mdeansoffice@ucsd.edu

Marshall: tmcstudentaffairs@ucsd.edu

Warren: warrendean@ucsd.edu

Roosevelt: ercstudentlife@ucsd.edu

Sixth: sixthsa@ucsd.edu

Seventh: seventhprovost@ucsd.edu

Eighth: eighthstudentaffairs@ucsd.edu