Interpreter Services

Interpreter Services

Any patient receiving care at Student Health Services (SHS) has access to a medical interpreter to support communication in a language other than English. Over 250 languages are available including Chinese, Spanish, Korean, American Sign Language, and Hindi. Interpreters can be requested at any time during a clinic visit at no charge.

What Are the Benefits of a Medical Interpreter?

Medical interpreters help SHS provide more accessible services and reduce barriers to care. Effective and clear communication between clinician and patient is essential for providing appropriate, high quality, and compassionate services. Professional interpreters can help patients give SHS staff a clear description of their medical condition and medical history. Interpreters also help patients understand the clinician's assessment of their medical condition, discharge instructions, medications, and treatment options.

Who Can Request a Medical Interpreter?

Any patient may choose to access interpreter services at SHS. Some students request an interpreter if they are more comfortable speaking and listening in a language other than English or have a hearing impairment. Other patients have strong English proficiency but benefit from assistance with complex medical terminology. SHS staff may also recommend an interpreter to assist them in understanding the patient’s concerns and to clarify the information and care instructions they provide.

What to Expect with Medical Interpretation

The interpreters who support medical appointments are professionally trained in medical interpretation and comply with the same confidentiality and privacy requirements as clinicians.

Interpretation may be provided in-person by a certified UC San Diego Health staff member or a representative from an outside company. Interpreters are also available remotely via video call using portable devices located throughout the clinic. These remote video interpretation units provide on-demand access to live interpreters in over 250 languages.

Once the interpreter joins the appointment, the clinician and patient will continue to speak directly to each other. The interpreter will listen to what is said in one language and repeat it aloud in the other language. The conversation will pause regularly to allow time for interpretation and ensure both the provider and patient understand. Before the visit is over, there will be time to review care information and ask/answer questions.

Accessing Interpretation

Patients may submit a request for in-person interpretation in advance of their appointment by calling the SHS main line (858) 534-3300. Patients may also request an interpreter when they arrive at the clinic or at any time during their visit. There is no charge for interpreter services.

Translation of Documents

If a patient needs help translating medical documents needed for care at SHS, they may contact their SHS provider who can help get professional translation with certified UC San Diego Health staff.

Urgent Care & After-Hours Care

Chaperone Policy

Health Requirements

Interpreter Services

Parents & Families

UC SHIP Dental Plan

Where to Get Care