Service Animals and Emotional Support Animals

Service animals are welcome in UCSD Student Health Services. According to ADA.gov, service animals are defined as dogs that are specifically trained to do work or perform tasks for people with disabilities. A service animal must be under the control of its handler and, under the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA), service animals must be harnessed, leashed, or tethered, unless the individual’s disability prevents using these devices or these devices interfere with the service animal’s safe, effective performance of tasks. In that case, the individual must maintain control of the animal through voice, signal, or other effective controls. Service animals should not be left unattended by their handler at any time as SHS staff are not permitted to provide care for or supervision of a service animal. See also ADA Requirements: Service Animals .

Service dogs are not required to wear a vest or other identification that indicates they’re a service animal. When it is not obvious what service an animal provides, only limited inquiries are allowed. Staff may ask two questions: (1) is the dog a service animal required because of a disability, and (2) what work or task has the dog been trained to perform. Staff cannot ask about the person’s disability, require medical documentation, require a special identification card or training documentation for the dog, or ask that the dog demonstrate its ability to perform the work or task. See also Service Animals .

UCSD SHS may request removal of the service animal if the dog is not housebroken, the dog is out of control and the handler cannot get the dog under control, or the dog’s presence fundamentally alters the nature of goods, services, programs, or activities provided to the public. See also Frequently Asked Questions about Service Animals and the ADA .

Other animals, including pets, emotional support animals, or therapy animals are not allowed in SHS. Staff are permitted to ask patients with pets, emotional support animals, or therapy animals to leave and reschedule their appointment for a time when they can return without their animal.

UCSD SHS does not provide letters of support for emotional support animals.

Online Scheduling

Online Visits (Telehealth)

Hours & Location