Student Services

Travel and Visa Application

Travel Signature

Travel Signatures

In order to return to the U.S. after a temporary leave from the U.S., F-1 students need a valid travel signature on their Form I-20 and J-1 students need a valid travel signature on their Form DS-2019.

Check your Current Travel Signature

Use our Document iSelfCheck for assistance with finding your travel signature on your I-20 or DS-2019.

If your travel signature is still valid, you do not need a new I-20/DS-2019 travel signature every time you travel internationally if your current signature is still valid. You do not need a valid travel signature to leave the U.S., but you do need one to enter the U.S.

Enrolled F-1 Students: If your travel signature will be more than 1 year old at the time of re-entry to the U.S., then you need to request a new signature.

F-1 OPT Students: If your travel signature will be more than 6 months old at the time of re-entry to the U.S., then you need to request a new signature.

J-1 Students: If your travel signature will be more than 1 year old at the time of re-entry to the U.S., then you need to request a new signature.

You are eligible to renew your travel signature:

If you are enrolled in full-time units at UC San Diego during the Fall, Winter and Spring quarters, OR

If you are enrolled below 12 academic units, but have an approved Reduced Course Load (RCL) OR

If you have applied for or have an approved post-completion F-1 Optional Practical Training (OPT) or J-1 Academic Training (AT) employment authorization.

If your SEVIS record at UC San Diego has been terminated due to visa status violations , OR

If your SEVIS record at UC San Diego has completed due to your program completion , OR

If your SEVIS record at UC San Diego has been released/transferred out to another school .

Request a New Travel Signature from ISEO

Submit a Travel Signature Request in iServices :

Find the Verification and Support Services category in the left menu. Select the Travel Signature Request .

Select the Travel Signature Request .

If you are on OPT, prepare a PDF copy of your EAD card.

You will receive a confirmation email when your request has been successfully submitted.

ISEO has an average processing time of 10 business days. You will be notified via email when your request is complete.

Visit our main travel page for more information on how to get ready for international travel.

Contact an International Student Advisor

Document iSelfCheck

Family Resources

Travel and Visa Application

Visa Application

International Travel

Travel Signature

Check in for SEVIS Activation

Visa Delays and Denials