Student Services

Changes to Enrollment

Enrollment Outside UC San Diego

Enrollment in Classes Outside UC San Diego

F-1 and J-1 international students can be enrolled in two different SEVIS-approved schools at the same time. Read the information below to determine if you need a Letter that confirms your Eligibility to Enroll at another Institution, or if you need Concurrent Enrollment Authorization.

Eligibility to Enroll at another Institution

Eligibility to Enroll Eligibility:

You would like to enroll at another school in the Summer/vacation term and you will continue your enrollment at UC San Diego in the following Fall quarter.

You are maintaining full-time units at UC San Diego during the academic year (Fall, Winter, and Spring Quarters) and would like to take extra classes at another school during the academic year.

You would like to enroll at another school in the Summer/vacation term and you are enrolled in at least 1 unit at UC San Diego.

You are in the final quarter of your program at UC San Diego with an approved Final Quarter RCL for that quarter, and are enrolled in at least 1 unit at UC San Diego in that quarter.

You are on post-completion F-1 OPT or J-1 AT .

Request a Letter Confirming your Eligibility to Enroll:

Before submitting your request, talk to your department/college advisor to determine that the class you plan to take can be used to fulfill UC San Diego course requirements.

Submit a Letter Request on i Serv i ces :

Find the Verification and Support Services category in the left menu. Select Letter Request . Choose the Letter of Eligibility to Enroll at Another Institution option.

Select Letter Request .

Choose the Letter of Eligibility to Enroll at Another Institution option.

Submit the required eForm. You w i ll rece i ve a conf i rmat i on ema i l when your request has been successfully subm i tted.

I SEO has an average process i ng t i me of 10 bus i ness days . You w i ll be not i f i ed v i a ema i l when your request i s complete.

After you complete the course at the other institution, contact your UCSD College Advising Office to confirm how to transfer your units to your academic record at UC San Diego.

Concurrent Enrollment Authorization

Concurrent Enrollment Authorization Eligibility:

International students need concurrent enrollment authorization if they will enroll below full course load (12 units per quarter) at UC San Diego during the academic year (Fall, Winter or Spring) and if they are not authorized for a Reduced Course Load (RCL) . The student must take additional units at a different SEVIS-ceritifed school at the same time so that the total number of units taken together amounts to full-time units.

In order to be eligible to enroll at another school, you must fulfill all of these requirements:

You are an enrolled UC San Diego student, in good standing, for the quarter of concurrent enrollment.

You have consulted with and received approval from your department/college advisor and determined that the requested class is either required to meet course requirements by your department or college, or is not available during the current quarter.

Your registration at UC San Diego and the other academic institution together will equal 12 or more units (full-time).

If the class or classes taken are online/distance learning courses, only one class can be used to fulfill the full-time study requirement.

Apply for Concurrent Enrollment Authorization:

Before submitting your request, talk to your department/college advisor to determine that the class you plan to take can be used to fulfill UC San Diego course requirements. Please also connect with an ISEO advisor.

Submit a Concurrent Enrollment Authorization Request in iServices :

Find the Changes to Enrollment category in the left menu. Select the Concurrent Enrollment Authorization Request .

Select the Concurrent Enrollment Authorization Request .

Submit the eForm. You will receive a confirmation email when your request has been successfully submitted.

ISEO has an average processing time of 10 business days . You will be notified via email when your request is complete.

After your enrollment at another school has ended, request a transcript from that school. Any transcript will suffice, including unofficial, official, e-transcript, etc. Email your transcript to irecords@ucsd.edu so that ISEO can verify that you completed at least 12 academic units (combined units from UC San Diego and the other school) in the quarter of your concurent enrollment, and maintained your F/J visa status.

Contact your UCSD College Advising Office to confirm how to transfer your units to your academic record at UC San Diego.

Changes to Enrollment

Academic Major Change

Reduced Course Loads (RCLs)

Program Extension

Degree Level Change

Enrollment Outside UC San Diego

Academic Disqualification and Suspension

Visa Status Violations

Regaining Status