Clinical Laboratory

Clinical Laboratory

The SHS clinical laboratory (“lab”) is accredited by the Commission on Office Laboratory Accreditation (COLA) and licensed by the State of California and the Clinical Laboratory Information Act (CLIA). We are also accredited by the Accreditation Association of Ambulatory Health Care (AAAHC).

Our lab supports our clinicians' diagnoses through testing and analysis of patient specimens. An appointment with the lab is REQUIRED and can be made using MyStudentChart .

SHS clinical laboratory is open during regular clinic hours and closed on university holidays .

During routine hours, last patient check-in is at 3:30pm. During extended hours, last patient check-in is at 5:00pm.

Lab may close for lunch between 12:00-1:00pm depending on available staffing.

Self-Directed Patient Testing

The SHS lab offers a broad range of self-directed patient testing options which do not require an appointment with a provider. An appointment with the lab is REQUIRED and can be made using MyStudentChart .

STI Testing – Get confidential and accurate answers about your STI status. Testing includes:

Urine Chlamydia & Gonorrhea

Titers & Quantiferon TB Blood Testing – Check your immunity status. We offer the following:

Hepatitis A Immunity Test

Hepatitis B Immunity Test

Measles, Mumps, Rubella (MMR) Immunity Test

Varicella Immunity Test

Quantiferon TB Blood Test

Urine Pregnancy Testing – Get your urine pregnancy testing done quickly and accurately at no cost for all registered students.

If you have additional questions about self-directed testing, please reach out to your care team through MyStudentChart .

Patient Preparation

Please arrive hydrated for your lab appointment. Typically, it is best to drink only plain water before your test. Some tests may have specific instructions for preparation. Here are some common patient preparation guidelines:

Fasting Blood Testing: Fasting is required prior to some lab tests. Fasting means no food, drink (other than water), or gum for 10-12 hours prior to the test. Routine medications may be taken with water. DO NOT FAST BEYOND 14 HOURS.

Urine Chlamydia and Gonorrhea Testing: Please do not urinate for a minimum of 1 hour prior to collection. Additional instructions will be given by SHS lab staff before the collection.

Stool Collection & 24-Hour Urine Collection Containers: Please visit the lab to collect the collection containers. Instructions will be provided by SHS lab staff.

To view active lab orders, please login to MyStudentChart -> Menu -> Upcoming Tests and Procedures.

Most lab testing performed at the SHS lab requires a lab order from a provider, with the exception of the self-directed testing listed above.

The SHS lab does not accept or process lab orders from any providers outside of SHS or UC San Diego Health.

Lab results are typically available within 3-5 business days and will automatically be posted on your MyStudentChart as they become available. Note: HIV, Hepatitis C, and pathology results are NOT automatically posted per California law but are released by the provider once reviewed.

Lab staff are not authorized to provide results or interpretations.

For inquiries about lab results or any related questions, please contact the ordering provider or your PCP.

To receive a paper copy of your lab results, please submit a request through MyStudentChart -> Medical Records.

Sickle Cell Testing for Student Athletes

Please reach out to your athletic trainer to submit a request to SHS lab on your behalf. Once we receive the request, you will receive a MyStudentChart message with further instructions.

Many services at the SHS lab are covered for students with UC SHIP and RAFT. Please see our Cost of Services page for general information. There are also options available for Fee-for-Service students. There is no lab visit fee.

Any charges for SHS lab testing will post within 30 days after the lab results are released. For any billing questions, please contact SHW Insurance .

Students with UC SHIP will be responsible for 10% of the total cost of the lab fees for any lab tests performed outside of the SHS lab, including any tests done at a UC San Diego Health lab.

Orders From Non-UCSD Providers

If you have lab orders from a provider outside UC San Diego Health, please visit an external lab facility such as Quest. Lab results and billing will be managed by the facility where you have your labs done.

To make an appointment at a Quest Patient Service Center, visit Quest Diagnostics: Appointments or call 1-888-277-8772. To locate a Patient Service Center, visit Quest Diagnostics: PSC .

Cost of Services

Clinical Laboratory

Gender-Affirming Care

Radiology (X-ray)

Reproductive Health

Travel Clearance