Living On Campus

Move-In/Move-Out

2025-26 Move-Out Information

Move-Out is only 5 weeks away! Now’s the time to start planning ahead and getting prepared for a smooth end to the year. Be sure to review all important details, deadlines, checkout expectations, and packing information in the 2025–26 End-of-Year Move-Out section of the website below. Let’s finish the year strong and make move-out easy for everyone!

2026 Fall Move-In Information - Coming Soon

Fall 2026 move-in is right around the corner!  We will continue to post updated information throughout the summer.  Assignments will be posted mid-to-end August.  General move-in begins September 16, 2026.  Students will need to select from an available move-in date and time at their designated housing community.  More information coming soon!

2025-26 End Of Year Move-Out

If you are living in our Pepper Canyon West community (and you did not complete a Pepper Canyon West Retention Contract for 2026-27) the housing contract ends on September 6 , 2026 at 3:00PM (PST) . current Pepper Canyon West resident must submit a contract termination request to be approved to move-out ahead of the end of the contract.

As the end of the academic year approaches, we want to remind everyone of the importance of timely move-out for students living on campus. While housing contracts officially end on June 13, 2026 at 3:00PM , we encourage students to plan their move-out after their last final exam. The earlier they can vacate, the better, especially with commencement events looming. Early departure helps mitigate traffic and parking congestion on campus during this busy time. Stay updated on move-out procedures by checking back frequently for updated information. If you are living in our Pepper Canyon West community (and you did not complete a Pepper Canyon West Retention Contract for 2026-27) the housing contract ends on September 6 , 2026 at 3:00PM (PST) .

Additionally, consult your community Residence Life Offices for specific information regarding move-out for your housing community.

Preparation For Move-Out

If you are planning to go home on the weekend including Memorial Day weekend (May 23 – 25), we recommend that you pack a few extra bags or ship a box or two of your belongings home as well. This will make the move-out process much smoother and easier for you.

The Trove is centrally located in the northwest corner of the Price Center . They provide on-site parcel processing via US Postal Service and offer discounts on UPS and FedEx compared to carrier direct.

Note: International packages require a computer-generated USPS customs form .

Consider moving out after May 30 (Recommended if you do NOT have in-person commitments for finals)

Residents can begin moving out without an approved contract termination as early as May 30, 2026 as the last two weeks of each quarter are not prorated. This is only for those with a 9-month contract.

We encourage you to take advantage of this opportunity, especially if you do not have in-person commitments for finals.

Consider moving out during the week of June 8-12 (Recommended for best vehicle access)

We strongly urge all residents to move out earlier in the week prior to June 13, especially if using multiple vehicles to avoid impacted traffic and parking due to Commencement.

All this week temporary loading signs will be posted near residence halls or apartments for quick loading access.

If you need to park longer than the posted loading time, please use nearby pay station parking .

Transportation Services will be activating their Commencement/Move-out webpage, which will detail campus entry points for move-out, parking instructions and a link to a move-out access voucher specifically for use on Saturday, June 13, the busiest traffic day of the week due to Commencement. This voucher will help transportation staff identify which location to best help students and their families. This voucher can be printed out or shown on a phone or tablet for access. The college residential area where you live will have a voucher unique to that neighborhood. Here is an example so you know what to look for.

This voucher will help transportation staff identify which location to best help students and their families. This voucher can be printed out or shown on a phone or tablet for access.

The college residential area where you live will have a voucher unique to that neighborhood. Here is an example so you know what to look for.

Exceptions to move-out deadlines - LIMITED Exceptions may be approved for a late stay request past the contract move-out deadline of June 13, 2026 at 3:00PM via a required on-line written request. Students are being instructed to submit any Late Stay Request with their Single Sign-On credentials through the Housing Portal beginning May 11, 2026 through June 1, 2026 . Note the following:

Late Stay Request will be available beginning May 11, 2026 via the Housing Portal.

Submitting a request does not guarantee an approval to stay later.

The Residence Life Office where you live will review the request and limited approvals for a late stay will be made if you meet certain criteria. You may be asked to provide documentation following the request for an extension.

Failing to follow the applicable steps can result in a fee assessed for Improper Checkout.

Requests for Late Stays will not be available after June 1, 2026 at 11:59PM (PST).

When All is Packed and Ready to Go : All current residents will do an Express Check-Out when they have completely moved out and are ready to turn in their keys and depart campus.

The form will be available for access via Single Sign-On credentials in the Housing Portal beginning May 29, 2026. Do not complete this form until are you are ready to move-out and depart campus.

Additional information will be posted online on the HDH Move-In/Move-Out page and you will receive more detailed move-out information from your RA/HA and Residence Life Office.

All units will be assessed for damages after move-out. You may incur a damage fee should there be excessive cleaning or physical damages noted in your suite or apartment.

MORE TIPS FOR A SUCCESSFUL MOVE-OUT EXPERIENCE

NEW VENDOR! STORAGE SCHOLARS

We’re pleased to recommend Storage Scholars, a trusted partner providing convenient and reliable solutions tailored to students. SIGN UP NOW! Visit Storage Scholars .

Storage Scholars is the preferred moving, storage, and shipping partner of the University of California, San Diego . From securely storing your belongings during breaks to ensuring safe delivery of packages, Storage Scholars has consistently demonstrated their commitment to excellence. Look no further than Storage Scholars for a hassle-free experience, superior customer service, and peace of mind. Visit their website to learn more and explore the comprehensive range of student storage and moving services offered to the UCSD community.

FREE! SUMMER MOBILITY DEVICE STORAGE

If you're planning to leave campus for the summer and can’t take your bike or scooter with you, don’t leave it vulnerable to theft or weather damage. Transportation Services offers free, indoor summer storage with 24/7 access in secure enclosures, designed to keep your personal mobility device safe while you're away.

Storage availability dates coming soon!

CAMPUS LOCK CUT SERVICE

Eligible UC San Diego affiliates may request a Bicycle Resource Official to cut off a lock to recover their bicycle, scooter or other micromobility device parked at any campus bike rack . The official will safely cut and remove your U-Lock, steel chain, braided cable and/or padlock.

MAKE MOVING EASIER

Just as suggested when you moved in, we encourage that you bring a personal dolly or cart to assist in your move. NOTE: Limited carts will be made available in some living areas.

Dining Services will offer free boxes to residents for packing purposes starting TBD (until supplies last). Markets will also offer some packing supplies for sale.

Box pick up locations will be provided to students in the coming weeks.

Student mail will be delivered through Finals Week. After that, mail will be forwarded to the permanent address listed in your record for 60 days (U.S. addresses only). You can check that address or edit a new address via your My TritonLink

Packages – USPS packages delivered after Finals Week will be forwarded to your permanent U.S. address for 60 days; packages from all other carriers will be returned to sender, so make sure you collect them before moving out!

We encourage you  to donate what you don’t pack! HDH and the Residence Life Offices have partnered with Disabled American Veterans (DAV) to provide donation bins for any clothes, housewares, or small appliances you don’t want to take home. DAV bins are distributed in convenient locations in all the college neighborhoods.  Connect with your Residence Life Office to find out your nearest bin.

HDH is partnering with the Triton Food Pantry to collect non-perishable food items. Food donation bins for non-perishable, unopened items will be set up by Dining Services starting June 5th through 15th at various dining facilities and markets. The donations will go to the Triton Food Pantry locations to serve students through summer and the academic year.

Consider donating to the UC San Diego Basic Needs Hub .

DAMAGE RESPONSIBILITY

As stated in your Housing Contract (Section 10), residents are financially responsible for any damage to their bedroom, apartment, common areas and furnishings (including leaving excess trash or abandoned belongings). Residents assessed for damages will receive notice via their UCSD email by early July. All damage charges will be on your July billing statement and viewable on TritonLink in July.

All residence halls and apartments will be closed and locked after 3:00 pm on Saturday, June 13, 2026.  By that time, your suite or apartment must be cleaned, vacated, and keys turned in. Students not completely moved out by this time or by an approved late move-out time by requested exception, may be assessed late charges after this deadline.

Fall 2026 Move-In Information - Coming Soon!

General move-in is offered from Wednesday, September 17 - September 21 and also provides additional week zero (September 22 - 26) move-in.

The 2025-26 housing contract begins Saturday, September 20, 2025.

The first day of classes is September 25th !

Make sure you are watching for information at your UC San Diego email along with updates here and through your college or housing community.

Additional Move-In Dates:

If you are a Summer Housing resident who opted for Extended Housing, don't forget that you will be moving to your permanent space for the 2025-26 academic year on September 11th. Don't forget that room charges will be assessed as soon as possible

EACH Move-Ins will be able to select from additional dates provided. Cost is $50/day and will be assessed to your student statement unless covered by another department.

My Room Assignment and Selecting Move In Dates & Times

Each housing community/college will have a designated "start date" as the release of assignments go out on a rolling basis.  See the information below to help gauge on what date you can start to login to view your assignment and select your move-in date and time. The dates below reflect being assigned to a space and the appropriate housing community/college.  It is possible for some students to be housed outside of their college of registration or housing community. Please do not attempt to login before your designated "start date" below.  You will receive a 'no access' page at login.

An email to all active housing contract holders will go out to your UC San Diego email account with your housing community/college designation and access start date as a reminder. We are excited to see you in the Fall!

Move-In Date & Time Selection -  By Housing Community & Access Date To View MyRoomAssignment

Housing Area/College (Community)

Access Date For MyRoomAssignment

Sixth College Residents

Muir College Residents

Revelle College Residents

Eighth College Residents

Rita Atkinson Residents and Pangea Res. Hall and Apartments

Pepper Canyon East/Matthew Apartments and Pepper Canyon West

Warren College Residents

Seventh College Residents

Thurgood Marshall College (TMC) Residents

Eleanor Roosevelt College (ERC) Residents

Move-In Maps & Information - Coming Soon!

As information becomes available we will post additional move-in map & information below.

Connect with your housing areas Residence Life Office for additional content.  If you are assigned to another housing area, you will receive your "Welcome" email from that housing community and can reach out to them for any question regarding your move-in process.

Revelle College:

Move-In Information

Move-In Information - New!

Marshall College:

Move-In Information

Move-In Information

Warren Move-In Map - New!

Eleanor Roosevelt C college (ERC):

Move-In Information

Welcome Letter - New!

Move-In Map - New!

Welcome Letter - New!

Move-In Map - New!

Seventh College:

Move-In Information

Rita Atkinson Residences / Pepper Canyon East Apartments/Matthews / Pepper Canyon West - Please reach out to the area if you need assistance - Contact Us

Storage Scholars - Ship to School Services

First-year move-in day is a special experience for students and families that should be memorable. Why spend it lugging items from your car to your dorm room all day or running around department stores frantically looking for decorations?

Instead, arrive at school with everything already ready and waiting for you in your room on move-in day. Our partners, Storage Scholars, will make your move-in a breeze!

Here’s how it works…

Ship Boxes from Home: Send Storage Scholars your own boxes or they can ship you a kit of empty boxes to make packing easier. FedEx can even pick-up from your house

Buy Online and Ship: Shop online and put the Storage Scholars facility as your shipping address.

They Receive & Notify You: Each package is scanned in with a photo and you get a text and email confirmation of its arrival.

Delivery In Room: Their team will deliver everything to your room on your move-in day this fall.

Rent A MicroFridge at The Bookstore!

Streamline campus life with an easy-to-use microwave, mini refrigerator/freezer combo, available for rent at the UC San Diego Bookstore. It’s shareable, convenient, and stress-free – and it all works with just one plug! Delivery and pick up available. More info >

Important Dates --- Review dates related to housing deadlines.

What To Bring? --- Be prepared on what to bring or leave at home!

Dining Hours ---- Check for updated hours/locations for move-in!

Quarterly Move-Outs

To move-out during the quarter, you must have an approved contract termination. Do not make plans if you have not received an approved contract termination. Please make sure to follow all instructions provided from Housing and your community Residence Life Office.

Physical keys (bedroom keys) need to be returned upon move-out.  If you fail to return the key, you will be assessed a key charge.

Take home all belongings if you received an approved contract termination.

Your access keycard to your suite or apartment needs to be updated.

Make sure to provide a forwarding address: Student Mail

Questions about move-in?  Please start with your housing community's Residence Life Office !

Living On Campus

Housing Rates and Services

Housing Guarantee

Housing Contract Process

Housing Contract and Rates

Undergrad Neighborhoods

Living Learning Communities

Move-In/Move-Out

Services & Accommodations

Parents & Supporters

Undergraduate Housing Advisory Council