Enrolling in Classes

Special Enrollment

Part-Time & Half-Time Study

Half-Time Study (Graduate Students)

Half-Time Study (Graduate Students)

If you are a graduate student approved for half-time status, you may be eligible for reduced fees. Learn more below.

Definition: You are a half-time graduate student if you're approved to enroll for 6 units. You are considered less than half-time if you are enrolled below 6 units.

Eligibility for half-time status

You can be approved for half-time status for reasons of: Employment Family responsibilities Medical Final quarter

Family responsibilities

Note: International students in F-1 or J-1 visa status may only be approved for Health or Final Quarter reasons. International students must receive additional authorization to drop below full time enrollment by submitting an International Student Reduced Course Load Request . The student will receive an updated I-20 or DS-2019 with the reduced course load approval. Contact the International Services and Engagement Office with any questions regarding F-1 or J-1 status and reduced course load.

Application and approval

Complete the Graduate Half-Time Study form . Application deadline: You must submit the Graduate Half-Time Study form * and* be enrolled in 6 units or fewer by 11:59 PM PT on the Friday of Week 2 of the quarter . Please note, half time requests submitted through the Graduate General Petition will not be accepted.

Application deadline: You must submit the Graduate Half-Time Study form * and* be enrolled in 6 units or fewer by 11:59 PM PT on the Friday of Week 2 of the quarter .

Please note, half time requests submitted through the Graduate General Petition will not be accepted.

If you've already paid full registration fees and you are later approved for half-time study, your student account will be automatically credited the difference. If you'd like to obtain a refund for a credit on your student account, contact Student Financial Solutions .

Requests for half-time study must be reviewed by a student’s department advisor, department chair, International Services and Engagement Office (ISEO) (for international students only), and Graduate Financial Support in the Division of Graduate Education (GEPA) before being processed by the Office of the Registrar.

Change in status

Half-time status continues each quarter, unless you:

Enroll over 6 units This can potentially result in the assessment of full-time tuition that must be paid immediately to avoid having your enrollment canceled for non-payment or to avoid receiving a registration hold. Review your student account after any enrollment adjustments made during Weeks 2 through 4. If you see that you have been incorrectly assessed full-time tuition, please contact the Office of the Registrar . Courses dropped with a "W" grade are included in total enrolled units.

This can potentially result in the assessment of full-time tuition that must be paid immediately to avoid having your enrollment canceled for non-payment or to avoid receiving a registration hold.

Review your student account after any enrollment adjustments made during Weeks 2 through 4. If you see that you have been incorrectly assessed full-time tuition, please contact the Office of the Registrar .

Courses dropped with a "W" grade are included in total enrolled units.

Withdraw or take a leave of absence If you withdraw or take a leave of absence, you must reapply to return to half-time status.

If you withdraw or take a leave of absence, you must reapply to return to half-time status.

Reapply for half-time status after a change in status

Contact your graduate program coordinator to initiate this process.

Reduced fees and billing

If you have been approved for half-time study and are enrolled in 6 units or fewer by the Friday of Week 2, you are eligible for a reduction of:

One-half of tuition

One-half of nonresident supplemental tuition, if applicable

Half-time fee table

Mandatory Registration Fees

Mandatory Registration Fees

Registration Fee Payment Deadline

Systemwide Tuition & Fees

Student Services Fee

UC San Diego Fees

Graduate Student Association Fee

University Center Fee

RIMAC Recreation Facility Fee

Canyonview Recreation Facility Fee

Mandatory Health Insurance

CAPS/Student Mental Health Fee

Student Transportation Fee

PRESS Newspaper Fee

Document Fee (One-time, newly admitted students)

Total for California Residents

Nonresident Supplemental Tuition

Total for California Nonresidents

UCGPC Systemwide Fee : ($7.00 annually, effective Fall 2023) fee assessed $3.00 Fall quarter, $2.00 Winter quarter, $2.00 Spring quarter

International Student Visa Administration Fee : All first-time enrolled international first-year, transfer and graduate students will be assessed a one-time visa administration fee of $150.00 during their admitted term.

Health Insurance is required as a condition of enrollment. Students are automatically enrolled in the Student Health Insurance Plan (SHIP) however, students already covered by an insurance plan may qualify for a health fee waiver. Please see the Student Health Insurance Plan page for more information, including waiver criteria, submission process and deadline.

Cost of Attendance

To see estimated cost of attendance information that includes tuition and fees, living expenses (i.e. food and housing), books, course materials, and more, please see the Financial Aid and Scholarships Cost of Attendance page. Please note that the Cost of Attendance does not reflect reduced tuition for students who are approved for half-time study.

Division of Graduate Education (GEPA)

Registrar's Office

International Services and Engagement Office