Living On Campus

Short-Term Transition Housing

Short-Term Transition Housing 2026

Single undergraduate students who may need flexible housing accommodations this summer and meet the eligibility criteria below will have the opportunity to apply for short-term transition housing on campus for Summer 2026.  Housing availability runs from June 20 through August 28, 2026 with a minimum of 3 nights and up to 30 days (exceptions reviewed on a case-by-case basis). Cost is $54.60/night for a shared double room space. Last day to apply for short term housing is August 14 th (those being housed in August must have a 2026-27 housing contract).

Eligibility Criteria 2026

The following students are eligible for Short-Term Transition Housing:

Recent graduates (single undergraduate Spring 2026) who need short term transition housing.

Incoming first-year and transfer undergraduate students who have accepted their offer of admissions and need temporary transition housing prior to the start of Fall Quarter 2026 on an exception basis.

Continuing undergraduate students who need short-term housing to transition to UCSD Conference programs.

Extension students (undergraduate International students) who have travel challenges.

Not available to those enrolled in Summer Session classes (please check out our other Summer Housing options )

Cost & Details 2026

Housing availability:  June 20, 2026 through August 28, 2026. Last day to apply for Short-Term Housing is August 14, 2026. Current residents who are approved for Short Term Housing that bridge Spring to Summer will be able to start beginning June 14, 2026.

Last day to apply for Short-Term Housing is August 14, 2026.

Current residents who are approved for Short Term Housing that bridge Spring to Summer will be able to start beginning June 14, 2026.

Students can begin to apply on May 14, 2026.

There will be limited move-ins on weekends. Try and plan to arrive during the week as move-ins will need to take place during business hours.

All students will need to sign a housing contract and receive confirmation before move-in instructions will be provided.

Sample Housing Contract: UC San Diego Single Undergraduate Residential Housing Contract, Summer Transition Housing 2026

Costs are as follows: $54.60/night/per person for a shared double space in a shared apartment (common area, kitchen, and bathroom).

$54.60/night/per person for a shared double space in a shared apartment (common area, kitchen, and bathroom).

Weekly custodial service provided for the common area, kitchen, and bathroom only.

There will be no linens, silverware, or pots and pans provided.  Units are furnished with a bed, desk, chair and wardrobe or closet in the bedroom. The living room has dining table with chairs and sofa. Kitchen has stove and refrigerator.

There is no dining plan with Short-Term Transition Housing.

There is no programming provided.

Students will be assigned in gendered binary housing in a bedroom by HDH.

Students will need to connect to ResNet for Wi-Fi access after move-in.

Questions can be directed to ucsdhousing@ucsd.edu .  Make sure to include your PID and name.

Undergrad Housing

Summer Housing acceleRATE Traditional Summer Success Short-Term Transition

Short-Term Transition

Please visit the Summer Session website to view classes offered this summer.