Student Services

Starting a New Program

Advising Resources

Frequently Asked Questions

Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs)

Form I-20 or DS-2019

My biographical or contact information in iServices is incorrect. Do I need to fix it before requesting my Form I-20 or DS-2019?

No. You do not need to fix your iServices profile information in order to submit your NEW ADMIT request for your Form I-20 or DS-2019. ISEO issues immigration documents using your passport and the documentation and responses you provide in your NEW ADMIT request e-form. Please submit your NEW ADMIT request as soon as you have access to iServices.

The information shown on your iServices profile is carried over from your admissions application. The information you provided on your admission application is now the information in university records. To update your biographical and contact information in university records, please follow the relevant instructions:

Changing Your Legal Name

Lived Name & Personal Pronouns

Updating your Addresses or other contact information

Note that it may take several weeks for changes you request to take effect in university systems, including iServices.

Can I expedite my New Admit I-20 or DS-2019 request?

ISEO does not expedite New Admit Form I-20/DS-2019 requests under any circumstances .

ISEO processes Form I‑20/DS-2019 requests on a first‑come, first‑served basis. During peak season, it can take up to approximately three weeks to issue your Form I‑20/DS-2019 once we receive a complete request. If your request is missing any items or does not meet the requirements, ISEO will follow up with you via email. Incomplete requests require additional follow‑up and will delay document issuance. ISEO understands how important these documents are and works to support all students as quickly as possible.

How do I resubmit my iServices request?

Can I sign my Form I-20/DS-2019 digitally or electronically?

No. Students are required to sign their Form I-20 or DS-2019 by hand. Students will be expected to show their hardcopy, hand-signed Form I-20 or DS-2019 at the U.S. embassy/consulate when going to interview, and at Customs when arriving for entry to the United States.

After receiving your Form I-20 or DS-2019, you will need to download it, print it, and sign it.

Why is the major name on my Form I-20/DS-2019 different from my UC San Diego major?

How do I change my major?

How do I edit or update information on my newly issued Form I-20 or DS-2019?

After you have requested and received your Form I-20 or DS-2019 from UC San Diego, you are able to request updates to your document, report changes in your admission or enrollment, or request a hardcopy be printed and mailed to you . Depending on the type of amendment you'd like to make, you may be directed to a different service form within iServices:

Change Requested

Service to Use in iServices

Updated Program Start Date to reflect quarter of entry into the U.S.

Updated Program Start Date to reflect quarter of entry into the U.S.

New Admit Updated I-20 Request (F-1) or New Admit Updated DS-2019 Request (J-1)

Deferring Admission to a future quarter

Deferring Admission to a future quarter

Declining Admission to UC San Diego (cancellation of Form I-20/DS-2019)

Declining Admission to UC San Diego (cancellation of Form I-20/DS-2019)

No changes, just a reprint of your Form I-20 or DS-2019

No changes, just a reprint of your Form I-20 or DS-2019

Adjusting Biographical Information* or Funding Reflected on your Form I-20 or DS-2019 for yourself (or for any of your dependents)

Adding New Dependents

Dependent I-20 Request (F-2) orDependent DS-2019 Request (J-2)

How will my name appear on my Form I-20 or DS-2019? When ISEO creates a student's Form I-20 or DS-2019, we follow the official SEVIS naming guidelines . Please note that “Passport Name” is NOT a required field on the Form I-20 or DS-2019. When a student receives their document, they may find this field to be blank. This not an error, as it is not a SEVIS requirement.

How do I transfer my Form I-20 (F-1 SEVIS Record) to UC San Diego?

Check out our Pre-Arrival Webinar: SEVIS Transfer Process for F-1 Students

You are eligible to request a transfer of your F-1 SEVIS Record/Form I-20 to UC San Diego if:

You are currently maintaining F-1 status at another U.S. school (via enrollment or post-completion OPT/STEM OPT); AND

You have accepted an offer of admission to a UC San Diego bachelor’s, master’s, or doctoral program; AND

The end of your current enrollment, or end of OPT/STEM OPT, is less than 5 months (150 days) from your start of instruction at UC San Diego; AND

Your current U.S. school can release your SEVIS record in Active status to UC San Diego prior to the end of your grace period.

Meeting all of the above criteria does not guarantee the transfer of your SEVIS record. It is the responsibility of the U.S. school that currently hosts your SEVIS record to determine your eligibility for SEVIS Transfer. Please contact your current U.S. school if you have questions about transferring your SEVIS record.

To transfer your SEVIS record to UC San Diego:

Have your current U.S. school schedule your SEVIS Release Date to UC San Diego. You must follow your current school’s process for requesting SEVIS Transfer. UC San Diego’s SEVIS School Code is: SND214F00088000 If your current school requires ISEO’s contact information to facilitate the transfer, please provide them with the following: DSO/Advisor name: Lisa Swid School email: iStudents@ucsd.edu School location: 9500 Gilman Dr, La Jolla, CA 92093 School phone: 858-534-3730

UC San Diego’s SEVIS School Code is: SND214F00088000

If your current school requires ISEO’s contact information to facilitate the transfer, please provide them with the following: DSO/Advisor name: Lisa Swid School email: iStudents@ucsd.edu School location: 9500 Gilman Dr, La Jolla, CA 92093 School phone: 858-534-3730

DSO/Advisor name: Lisa Swid

School email: iStudents@ucsd.edu

School location: 9500 Gilman Dr, La Jolla, CA 92093

School phone: 858-534-3730

Request your Form I-20 from UC San Diego by following the instructions on our Request the Form I-20 webpage . You can submit your request for your Form I-20 as soon as you know what date your prior school will release your SEVIS record to UC San Diego—even if that date is in the future. Upon receipt of your UC San Diego Form I-20, verify that: The SEVIS ID matches the SEVIS ID on your prior school’s I-20 The “Form Issue Reason” shows “Transfer Pending”

You can submit your request for your Form I-20 as soon as you know what date your prior school will release your SEVIS record to UC San Diego—even if that date is in the future.

Upon receipt of your UC San Diego Form I-20, verify that: The SEVIS ID matches the SEVIS ID on your prior school’s I-20 The “Form Issue Reason” shows “Transfer Pending”

The SEVIS ID matches the SEVIS ID on your prior school’s I-20

The “Form Issue Reason” shows “Transfer Pending”

If you requested a SEVIS Transfer but receive an I-20 with a different SEVIS ID number, or that says “Initial Attendance”, please email ISEO.

IMPORTANT REMINDERS for transferring your SEVIS record:

It is your responsibility to ensure your prior school releases your SEVIS record to UC San Diego in a timely fashion and in Active status.

You must request the Form I-20 from UC San Diego to complete the SEVIS Transfer process and maintain your F-1 status. Failure to request the Form I-20, even after releasing your SEVIS record to UC San Diego, may result in loss of valid F-1 status.

AFTER completing the SEVIS Transfer AND receiving your UC San Diego I-20, you can:

Enroll in UCSD Summer courses prior to beginning your program in the Fall, without needing to adjust your I-20 Program Start Date.

Work on campus prior to beginning your program in the Fall.

Use your UC San Diego I-20 to travel abroad and seek reentry to the U.S. Visit ISEO’s International Travel webpage for more information.

How do I transfer my Form DS-2019 (J-1 Student SEVIS Record) to UC San Diego?

You are eligible to request a transfer of your J-1 SEVIS Record/Form I-20 to UC San Diego if:

You are currently maintaining J-1 status at another U.S. school (via enrollment or post-completion Academic Training); AND

You have accepted an offer of admission to a UC San Diego bachelor’s, master’s, or doctoral program; OR been accepted to exchange at UC San Diego via the UCEAP-R or Global Exchange programs; AND

Transfer occurs while J-1 program is in “Active” status. Transfers are not possible during J-1 grace period or after the J-1 program has already ended ; AND

Transfer occurs within the maximum duration of participation allowed by the specific J-1 category and transfer may only occur within the same J-1 category [i.e. J-1 College/University Student to J-1 College/University Student, or J-1 Non-Degree to J-1 Non-Degree]

Note: A J-1 student who has initiated a waiver application of the 212(e) requirement through the U.S. Department of State should contact a J-1 advisor at their home institution to determine possible impact on transfer eligibility

Your current U.S. school can release your SEVIS record in Active status to UC San Diego prior to the end date listed on your DS-2019 .

Meeting all of the above criteria does not guarantee the transfer of your SEVIS record. It is the responsibility of the U.S. school that currently hosts your SEVIS record to determine your eligibility for SEVIS Transfer. Please contact your current U.S. school if you have questions about transferring your SEVIS record.

To transfer your SEVIS record to UC San Diego:

Have your current U.S. school schedule your SEVIS Release Date to UC San Diego. You must follow your current school’s process for requesting SEVIS Transfer. UC San Diego’s J-1 Program Number is: P-1-02849 If your current school requires ISEO’s contact information to facilitate the transfer, please provide them with the following: ARO/Advisor name: Lisa Swid School email: iStudents@ucsd.edu School location: 9500 Gilman Dr, La Jolla, CA 92093 School phone: 858-534-3730

UC San Diego’s J-1 Program Number is: P-1-02849

If your current school requires ISEO’s contact information to facilitate the transfer, please provide them with the following: ARO/Advisor name: Lisa Swid School email: iStudents@ucsd.edu School location: 9500 Gilman Dr, La Jolla, CA 92093 School phone: 858-534-3730

ARO/Advisor name: Lisa Swid

School email: iStudents@ucsd.edu

School location: 9500 Gilman Dr, La Jolla, CA 92093

School phone: 858-534-3730

Request your Form DS-2019  from UC San Diego by following the instructions on our Request the Form DS-2019  webpage . You can submit your request for your Form DS-2019 as soon as you know what date your prior school will release your SEVIS record to UC San Diego—even if that date is in the future.

You can submit your request for your Form DS-2019 as soon as you know what date your prior school will release your SEVIS record to UC San Diego—even if that date is in the future.

Receive your UC San Diego Form DS-2019. Upon receipt of your UC San Diego Form DS-2019, verify that: The SEVIS ID matches the SEVIS ID on your prior school’s DS-2019 The “Purpose of this Form” shows “Transferred”

The SEVIS ID matches the SEVIS ID on your prior school’s DS-2019

The “Purpose of this Form” shows “Transferred”

If you requested a SEVIS Transfer but receive a DS-2019 with a different SEVIS ID number, or that says “Begin New Program”, please email ISEO.

IMPORTANT REMINDERS for transferring your SEVIS record:

It is your responsibility to ensure your prior school releases your SEVIS record to UC San Diego in a timely fashion and in Active status.

You must request the Form DS-2019 from UC San Diego to complete the SEVIS Transfer process and maintain your J-1 status. Failure to request the Form DS-2019, even after releasing your SEVIS record to UC San Diego, may result in loss of valid J-1 status.

AFTER completing the SEVIS Transfer AND receiving your UC San Diego DS-2019, you can:

Enroll in UCSD Summer courses if your Form DS-2019 aligns with Summer Session dates .

Work on campus prior to beginning your program. Remember that you must obtain On-Campus Employment Authorization before you begin working on-campus.

Use your UC San Diego DS-2019 to travel abroad and seek re-entry to the U.S. Visit ISEO’s International Travel webpage for more information. IMPORTANT INTERNATIONAL TRAVEL NOTE : Be mindful of international travel limitations and detailed in the FAQ below ( “If I transfer my SEVIS record, do I need to apply for a new visa?” )

IMPORTANT INTERNATIONAL TRAVEL NOTE : Be mindful of international travel limitations and detailed in the FAQ below ( “If I transfer my SEVIS record, do I need to apply for a new visa?” )

What is UC San Diego’s SEVIS School Code?

What is UC San Diego’s J-1 Program Number?

If I transfer my SEVIS record, do I need to apply for a new visa?

If your visa has expired but you will stay inside the United States , you can remain in the U.S. as long as you have received your UC San Diego “Transfer Pending” Form I-20 or “Transferred” Form DS-2019, and maintain your F-1/J-1 status. As long as you remain in the U.S., you do not need to apply for a new visa.

If your visa has expired and you will travel outside of the United States: you must use your new UC San Diego “Transfer Pending” Form I-20 or “Transferred” Form DS-2019 to apply for a new F-1/J-1 visa, before you can return to the U.S. Visit our F-1/J-1 Visa Application webpage for instructions.

If your visa is still valid (unexpired) and you plan to travel outside of the United States , BEFORE YOU TRAVEL please contact the U.S. consulate that issued your visa to verify whether it may still be used for U.S. entry. ISEO cannot verify the validity of a U.S. visa, since it is a document issued by the U.S. government.

I transferred my SEVIS record to UC San Diego but have changed my mind and would like to attend another school. My UC San Diego I-20/DS-2019 has already been issued. What should I do?

F-1 Students: Submit a SEVIS Transfer Out Request to iServices .

J-1 Students: Please email ISEO .

SEVIS I-901 Fee Payment

Do I need to pay the I-901 SEVIS Fee?

If you are a new international student, you are required to pay the SEVIS I-901 Fee to the U.S. government after being issued a new SEVIS ID#. The SEVIS I-901 Fee only has to be paid once per initial F-1 or J-1 SEVIS record (i.e. once per SEVIS ID#).

If your Form I-20 shows “Initial Attendance” or your Form DS-2019 shows “Begin New Program,” you are required to pay the SEVIS I-901 Fee. After receiving your UC San Diego Form I-20 or DS-2019, visit the SEVIS I-901 FMJ Fee website and use the information on your I-20/DS-2019 to pay the fee. Make sure to keep a copy of the I-901 Fee receipt for your records.

Failure to pay the SEVIS I-901 Fee may have negative impact on your visa application, U.S. entry, and/or ability for ISEO to activate your F-1 or J-1 status following your arrival to the U.S. ISEO recommends you pay the SEVIS I-901 Fee, if applicable, immediately after receiving your UC San Diego Form I-20 or DS-2019.

SEVIS Transfer Students:

F-1 students who successfully transfer their Form I-20/SEVIS record and retain their existing SEVIS ID# do not need to pay the SEVIS I-901 Fee again.

J-1 students may be required to pay the SEVIS I-901 Fee in some SEVIS Transfer scenarios. If you are a J-1 student who has transferred your SEVIS record to UC San Diego and received your UCSD Form DS-2019, you may email ISEO to verify whether you are required to pay the SEVIS I-901 Fee again.

Is the I-901 SEVIS Fee transferable?

F-1 or J-1 Visa and Visa Application

How do I apply for an F-1 or J-1 student visa?

To apply for a student visa, you must first receive the Form I-20 (F-1 visa certificate of eligibility) or Form DS-2019 (J-1 visa certificate of eligibility).

Once you have received the Form I-20, you can apply for the F-1 visa. Learn how to request the Form I-20 here .

Once you have received the Form DS-2019, you can apply for the J-1 visa. Learn how to request the Form DS-2019 here .

Visit our F-1/J-1 Visa Application webpage for instructions on submitting your visa application to the U.S. consulate and scheduling an interview.

Can I apply for my visa while I wait to receive my UC San Diego Form I-20 or DS-2019?

Can UC San Diego help me submit my visa application or prepare for my visa interview?

No, the university cannot assist with completing the visa application or preparing for the visa interview. A visa application is a personal application you submit to the U.S. government to request permission to enter the United States for a specific temporary purpose (to study).

The university’s role in the student visa application process is to issue the initial Form I-20 or DS-2019, which verifies the student's admission, planned program dates and field of study, and bona fide student intentions. But it is your responsibility as the visa applicant to prove to the consulate that you meet the U.S. government’s eligibility criteria to seek entry to the U.S. in F-1 or J-1 status. Visit ISEO’s F-1/J-1 Visa Application webpage for more information on the visa application process, including tips on preparing for your visa interview.

Can I apply for a U.S. visa in a country other than my own?

If getting an F-1 or J-1 visa will take too long, can I use B-2 or ESTA (WT) to enter the U.S. instead?

Do I need to disclose and set my social media accounts to “public” for the visa application process?

I submitted the DS-160 (visa application), but need to make changes or updates. What should I do?

My visa is unexpired, but has my previous school’s name on it. Can I still use it to enter the U.S.?

My visa is unexpired, but has my previous SEVIS ID number on it. Can I still use it to enter the U.S.?

I applied for and was issued a new visa but have changed my mind about what school I want to attend. Can I use my new visa?

When entering the United States on a new visa, the SEVIS ID and school name on the visa MUST match the Form I-20/DS-2019 for the school you will be attending.

If you choose to attend a different school, and the SEVIS ID/school name on that school’s Form I-20/DS-2019 no longer matches what is on your visa, you must apply for a new visa using your new school’s Form I-20/DS-2019.

Otherwise, p lease contact the U.S consulate that issued your visa to verify whether it may still be used for U.S. entry. Entry to the U.S. on a new visa that does not match the Form I-20/DS-2019 (same SEVIS ID, same school) will be at the discretion of Customs and Border Protection (CBP) and is likely to result in denial of U.S. entry.

I was able to schedule a visa appointment, but it is after the Program Start Date on my Form I-20/DS-2019. What should I do?

Search the consulate’s website to see if they offer expedited or emergency visa appointments. Most consulates will consider requests for expedited or emergency appointments. However, this may not be available at all posts. NOTE: Most consulates will require you to already have a visa appointment booked, even if the date is many months away, before they will consider a request for an earlier appointment.

NOTE: Most consulates will require you to already have a visa appointment booked, even if the date is many months away, before they will consider a request for an earlier appointment.

Follow the consulate’s instructions to submit the expedite or emergency appointment request. Upload a copy of your Form I-20/DS-2019 to the request. In the request text, let the consulate know your Program Start Date and that you are requesting a visa appointment in advance of that date, so that you can report to UC San Diego in time to start your program of study.

WHAT TO DO IF YOU CANNOT GET AN EARLIER APPOINTMENT : If due to unavailability of timely visa appointment you will not be able to arrive to UC San Diego by the Program Start Date listed on your Form I-20/DS-2019, please review our FAQ, “ Due to visa delay, I will not be able to arrive to UC San Diego by the Program Start Date on my Form I-20/DS-2019. What should I do? ”

During my visa interview, the Consulate asked for information about my academic program and/or faculty advisor. Where do I get this?

My visa application is in Administrative Processing (221g notice). What do I do?

Administrative Processing means that your visa application requires additional review by the U.S. Department of State before a decision can be made. Administrative processing is also known as a "visa refusal", meaning your visa has been temporarily refused pending further review. In many cases, you will receive a 221(g) notice explaining this. The length of time the review may take can vary from a few weeks to several months. There is no way to expedite Administrative Processing. You must wait for the consulate to complete their review and either approve or deny your visa application. To learn more about Administrative Processing, please review our website here .

If the Consulate requests additional documents or information from you, be sure to respond promptly to their request. If the Consulate has asked you to provide information on your academic program, such as details about your course of study, planned research, or research/academic advisor, please see our FAQ here .

IMPACT OF ADMINISTRATIVE PROCESSING ON YOUR PLANS TO ATTEND UC SAN DIEGO: If due to Administrative Processing you will not be able to arrive to UC San Diego by the Program Start Date listed on your Form I-20/DS-2019, please review our FAQ, “ Due to visa delay, I will not be able to arrive to UC San Diego by the Program Start Date on my Form I-20/DS-2019. What should I do? ”

My visa was denied. What do I do?

A visa denial occurs when a U.S. consular officer determines that the applicant does not meet the eligibility requirements under U.S. immigration law for the visa they requested.

In most cases, students may reapply for the visa by submitting a new application (including new payment of consular fees). Before reapplying, it is very important that you understand the reasons for the denial, so that you can prepare new and stronger information to present during your next visa interview. ISEO strongly recommends working with an immigration attorney to prepare for your next visa application/interview, if you have been previously denied a visa.

To learn more about visa denials, please review our website here .

IMPACT OF VISA DENIAL ON YOUR PLANS TO ATTEND UC SAN DIEGO: If due to visa denial you will not be able to arrive to UC San Diego by the Program Start Date listed on your Form I-20/DS-2019, please review our FAQ, “ Due to visa delay, I will not be able to arrive to UC San Diego by the Program Start Date on my Form I-20/DS-2019. What should I do? ”

Due to visa delay, I will not be able to arrive to UC San Diego by the Program Start Date on my Form I-20/DS-2019. What should I do?

International students must obtain their visa in time to arrive to UC San Diego by the Program Start Date listed on their Form I-20/DS-2019. There is no grace period for late arrival.

If you are unable to obtain a visa in time to arrive by your Program Start Date, follow these steps to amend your program plans, and then update your Form I-20/DS-2019 as needed:

ONE MONTH OUT from Program Start Date: If you are unable to obtain visa approval at least one month out from your Program Start Date, you must begin planning for the possibility that you may not be able to start your UC San Diego program in the timeframe originally planned. Contact the appropriate office to understand options for deferring your academic program start to a future term (Note: Not all programs offer deferral.): Undergraduate Students: Contact Undergraduate Admissions by sending an email through your Applicant Portal. Graduate Students: Contact your Academic Program by emailing your Graduate Coordinator. Exchange Students: Contact the host program you applied through: UC Education Abroad Program Reciprocity (UC-EAPR): uc-reciprocity@uceap.universityofcalifornia.edu UC San Diego Global Exchange: global@ucsd.edu

Undergraduate Students: Contact Undergraduate Admissions by sending an email through your Applicant Portal.

Graduate Students: Contact your Academic Program by emailing your Graduate Coordinator.

Exchange Students: Contact the host program you applied through: UC Education Abroad Program Reciprocity (UC-EAPR): uc-reciprocity@uceap.universityofcalifornia.edu UC San Diego Global Exchange: global@ucsd.edu

UC Education Abroad Program Reciprocity (UC-EAPR): uc-reciprocity@uceap.universityofcalifornia.edu

UC San Diego Global Exchange: global@ucsd.edu

TWO WEEKS OUT from Program Start Date, or by deferral deadline, whichever is SOONER: If you still have not obtained visa approval by two weeks out from your Program Start Date, AND your College (Undergraduates) / Department (Graduates) / Host Program (Exchange Students) has confirmed that deferral is an available option for you, follow their required process to submit your deferral request.

Update I-20/DS-2019 after deferral approval , and within 2 weeks of original Program Start Date: No later than 2 weeks after your original Program Start Date, submit the New Admit Updated I-20 Request (F-1) or the New Admit Updated DS-2019 Request (J-1) in iServices ( iServices.ucsd.edu ) to request your I-20/DS-2019 be updated to reflect your new Program Start Date. You must have received official written confirmation of your deferral approval to request this update to your I-20/DS-2019.

Provide updated I-20/DS-2019 to U.S. Consulate: Once you receive your updated I-20/DS-2019 reflecting your new Program Start Date, provide it to the Consulate if you currently have a pending visa application: If your visa application is in Administrative Processing, email the Consulate a copy of your updated I-20/DS-2019 showing your new Program Start Date and inform them of the change in your program start plans. If you have an upcoming visa interview appointment, make sure to bring your updated I-20/DS-2019 showing your new Program Start Date to your visa interview.

If your visa application is in Administrative Processing, email the Consulate a copy of your updated I-20/DS-2019 showing your new Program Start Date and inform them of the change in your program start plans.

If you have an upcoming visa interview appointment, make sure to bring your updated I-20/DS-2019 showing your new Program Start Date to your visa interview.

Cancellation of Form I-20 or DS-2019: UC San Diego will automatically cancel the Form I-20 or Form DS-2019 for any student who is no longer eligible to enroll and who has not submitted a New Admit Updated I-20 Request or New Admit Updated DS-2019 Request within 2 weeks of their original Program Start Date. Students in these circumstances should not attempt to seek entry to the U.S. using visa documents from UC San Diego.

ADDITIONAL CONSIDERATIONS

If you are unable to attend UC San Diego as of your original Program Start Date, it is your responsibility to ensure you amend and/or settle your affairs with the university.

Understand the Schedule of Refunds and Timeframe to Drop Classes: To understand the requirements for cancelling enrollment or to receive a refund of tuition and fees, review the Schedule of Refunds.

Cancel or Defer Housing: On-Campus Housing: Contact Housing, Dining & Hospitality (HDH) ( Undergraduate HDH or Graduate HDH ) for procedures and last days for submission to avoid charges. Off-Campus Housing: Contact landlord or rental manager to understand options and procedures for late, deferred, or cancelled arrival to the U.S

On-Campus Housing: Contact Housing, Dining & Hospitality (HDH) ( Undergraduate HDH or Graduate HDH ) for procedures and last days for submission to avoid charges.

Off-Campus Housing: Contact landlord or rental manager to understand options and procedures for late, deferred, or cancelled arrival to the U.S

Arriving to the U.S .

How early can I enter the U.S. using my UC San Diego Form I-20/DS-2019?

Students holding a new Initial Form I-20 or DS-2019 (new SEVIS ID number), plus a valid passport and visa, may seek entry to the U.S. no more than 30 days prior to the Program Start Date listed on their I-20/DS-2019.

SEVIS Transfer Students: Students who have successfully transferred their SEVIS Record to UC San Diego and have received a UC San Diego I-20/DS-2019 showing the same SEVIS ID number as on their previous school’s I-20/DS-2019, may seek entry to the U.S. as soon as they receive their UC San Diego I-20/DS-2019, as long as they also hold a valid passport and visa. To review visa validity following SEVIS Transfer, review our FAQ, “ If I transfer my SEVIS record, do I need to apply for a new visa? ”

For more information on when you can arrive to the U.S. and what other immigration documents you must carry with you through Customs, please visit our Arriving to the U.S. webpage .

Can I arrive late?

International students are expected to arrive to the U.S. no later than the Program Start Date listed on their Form I-20 (F-1) or DS-2019 (J-1). Because entry to the U.S. is at the sole discretion of Customs and Border Protection (CBP) Officers at the Port of Entry, the university cannot approve students for late arrival. Please visit our Late Arrival webpage to learn more about the academic and immigration risks associated with late arrival.

Please review important information in the FAQs above if you are experiencing one of the following visa delays:

Unable to obtain a timely visa interview appointment

Administrative Processing (221g notice)

If you are unable to arrive to UC San Diego by the Program Start Date listed on your Form I-20/DS-2019, please review our FAQ, “ Due to visa delay, I will not be able to arrive to UC San Diego by the Program Start Date on my Form I-20/DS-2019. What should I do? ”

What documents do I need to bring with me when traveling to the U.S.?

New international students should be prepared to show the following documents to Customs and Border Protection (CBP) Officers when seeking entry to the United States:

Passport, valid for 6 months into the future

Valid UC San Diego Form I-20 or DS-2019

Valid F-1 or J-1 visa stamp (inside passport)

UC San Diego offer of admission

Financial documents proving your ability to support your U.S. studies and living

To learn more about these documents, please visit our Arriving to the U.S. webpage .

What should I expect at Customs?

Do I need to do anything for my immigration status after I arrive to the U.S.?

After you have arrived to the United States, follow these instructions to access your Form I-94* and review it for accuracy . It is important to review your Form I-94 and confirm that Customs and Border Protection (CBP) accurately recorded your U.S. entry information. Your I-94 will become available for download approximately 3 business days after your U.S. entry.

*The Form I-94 is a lawful record of your admission to the United States, issued by the U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) each time you enter the U.S. Your I-94 confirms that you have been legally admitted to the U.S. in a specific visa status for a particular period of time. The Form I-94 is an important immigration document that you may be required to show during your time in the U.S. to obtain future immigration benefits.

New International Students Additional Resources

Have questions about housing, booking classes, tuition, health requirements, and other topics related to starting life at UC San Diego? Click below to see how you can connect with the offices that specialize in these support services.

Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs)

Undergraduate Degree Seeking Student

Graduate Degree Seeking Student

Exchange Students

Summer Session Visiting Students

Sponsored Students

Prospective International Students

RETURN TO iNEWSTUDENTS HOMEPAGE

Advising Resources

Advising for New International Students

Frequently Asked Questions