Exams, Grades, & Transcripts

How to Appeal a Grade

How to Appeal a Grade

If you believe you've received a grade based on nonacademic criteria such as discrimination, you can appeal the grade.

Decide if you have grounds to appeal your grade. You may have grounds for appeal if you believe you have received a grade based on nonacademic criteria, including: Politics Race Religion Gender Ethnic origin Read the Academic Senate policy on grade appeals. Note the appeal deadlines.

You may have grounds for appeal if you believe you have received a grade based on nonacademic criteria, including: Politics Race Religion Gender Ethnic origin

Try to resolve the problem. Try to resolve the problem with your instructor. If you can't resolve the problem with your instructor, you can submit a written appeal to the chair of the department offering the class. If you aren't satisfied with the results of the written appe al to the department chair, you can submit a written appeal to the most appropriate individual: your college provost, the cognizant school dean, the School of Medicine dean, or the School of Pharmacy and Pharmaceutical Sciences dean. I f you aren't satisfied with the results of the appeal to the provost or dean, you can submit a written appeal to the Committee on Educational Policy's Subcommittee on Grade Appeals by the last day of instruction of the next quarter.

Try to resolve the problem with your instructor.

If you can't resolve the problem with your instructor, you can submit a written appeal to the chair of the department offering the class.

If you aren't satisfied with the results of the written appe al to the department chair, you can submit a written appeal to the most appropriate individual: your college provost, the cognizant school dean, the School of Medicine dean, or the School of Pharmacy and Pharmaceutical Sciences dean.

I f you aren't satisfied with the results of the appeal to the provost or dean, you can submit a written appeal to the Committee on Educational Policy's Subcommittee on Grade Appeals by the last day of instruction of the next quarter.

Graduate Division

Registrar's Office , (858) 534-3144