Financial Aid Application Tips

California Dream Act Tips

California Dream Act Tips

Students who qualify for the AB540 fee exemption and are not able to file a FAFSA can now apply for certain types of financial aid by completing the California Dream Act application . Submitting the CADAA each academic year is an important first step to ensuring you have access to the funding needed to cover educational expenses.

The CADAA is only available to AB540 eligible students . If you are a US citizen or eligible non-citizen (ie, permanent resident), you should submit the FAFSA instead.

The CADAA priority submission period is typically October 1-March 2. These dates are subject to change.

The UC San Diego school code for your CADAA is 001317 .

Students applying for the Cal Grant for the first time in 2026-27 must submit a GPA Verification form to the California Student Aid Commission by March 2, 2026 The form is available online .

State and UC San Diego financial aid includes grants, loans and work-study (with a valid work authorization).

To receive priority funding, file your 2026-27 California Dream Act Application no later than March 2, 2026

Students can continue to apply on or after the priority filing deadline for other limited financial aid consideration.

The California Dream Act Application requires the previous year’s tax information. 2025-26 academic year, use the 2023 tax return information 2026-27 academic year, use the 2024 tax return information

2025-26 academic year, use the 2023 tax return information

2026-27 academic year, use the 2024 tax return information

Any state or UC San Diego financial aid offered will be based on your CADAA. These offers could include grants, loans, or work-study (with a valid work authorization). Be sure to mark your calendar each year and use the information provided below for additional information on the CADAA and other resources for undocumented students.

UC Resources for Undocumented Students

Undocumented students of all ethnicities and nationalities can find a safe environment and supportive community at the University of California. Whether you’re thinking about applying to a UC campus or are already a student, there are various programs to help you transition to and succeed at UC.

Additional Tips and Resources

Check your UC San Diego email account often! After you have filed your CADAA, the Financial Aid and Scholarships Office may request additional financial aid documents via email. It’s important to provide any requested documents by the published deadlines for the academic year. Check your UC San Diego email account often and make sure you submit any additional documents or clear any CADAA rejects by the published deadlines. Visit these additional resources to help you file your CADAA: California Dream Act Frequently Asked Questions (PDF) Undocumented Student Services Resources for Undocumented Students (AB 540) Scholarships Open to Undocumented Students (PDF) Income Generation Options for Undocumented Students Toolkit (PDF)

Check your UC San Diego email account often! After you have filed your CADAA, the Financial Aid and Scholarships Office may request additional financial aid documents via email. It’s important to provide any requested documents by the published deadlines for the academic year. Check your UC San Diego email account often and make sure you submit any additional documents or clear any CADAA rejects by the published deadlines.

Visit these additional resources to help you file your CADAA:

California Dream Act Frequently Asked Questions (PDF)

Undocumented Student Services

Resources for Undocumented Students (AB 540)

Scholarships Open to Undocumented Students (PDF)

Income Generation Options for Undocumented Students Toolkit (PDF)

Financial Aid Application Tips

California Dream Act Tips