Letters of Recommendation Questions

Letters of Recommendation Questions

Can I submit more than 3 letters of recommendation?

Yes, but most departments request only three letters. If you want to upload additional letters, please check with your department to make certain that it will not adversely affect your chances of being admitted.

How can I correct a recommender's information in the application?

If the application is currently in progress, changes may be made to the Recommender's information in the "Recommendations" section of the application. If the application has already been submitted, changes may be made by going to the application portal. After selecting the "Edit" button next to the Status of the recommender, you will be able to edit the Recommender's personal information, as well as send a reminder email or exclude them from the application.

Please note that Recommenders' emails as well as the Buckley Amendment waiver will not be able to be changed.

Did you get my letter of recommendation?

You can check on the status of your letters of recommendation by logging back into your application. Within the application, you can also resend recommendation requests or send new recommendation requests.

Can I submit my application even if my recommenders have not yet completed the recommendation letters?

Yes. Submit your application by the deadline. The letters of recommendation may be uploaded by the recommender after your submission, however some departments may not review your application until all letters have been received. Please contact the department directly or visit the department graduate admissions page to review the policy on recommendation letter deadlines. Please note that we cannot guarantee the review of application materials received after the deadline.

Do my recommenders have to submit their letters before the deadline?

Recommenders are strongly encouraged to submit their letters by the deadline, but will still be able to submit after the posted date. The application deadline is provided to recommenders in the Letter of Recommendation Request email.

Please note that departments may not review the application until all letters have been received.

Can I use Interfolio to submit my letter(s) of recommendation?

Yes, you can use Interfolio. You will be required to enter the recommenders' information in your application and use the email address provided by Interfolio.

Non Discrimination Statement : In accordance with applicable Federal and State law and University policy, the University of California does not discriminate, or grant preferences, on the basis of race, color, national origin, religion, sex, disability, and/or other protected categories. More information about Proposition 209 can be found here . More information about the University of California Anti-Discrimination Policy can be found here.

General Application Questions

Application Fee Questions

Funding Questions

Test and Scores Questions

Letters of Recommendation Questions

Transcripts Questions

Gender Identity, Sexual Orientation, Ethnicity Questions

International Applicant Questions

Joint Doctoral Program (JDP) Applicant Questions

Undocumented Student Questions

Admitted Student Questions