Living On Campus

Services & Accommodations

Accommodation Needs

Accommodation Needs

Disability Accommodations

Students with a disability or other medical need that requires special Housing accommodations should apply for Housing online AND contact the Office for Students with Disabilities (OSD) as early as possible. OSD is the only office on-campus that can review a student’s medical documentation and make recommendations for the student’s needs on-campus, including in Housing. Students must meet all Housing deadlines and submit their signed Authorization for Accommodation (AFA) Letter from OSD to the HDH Housing Liaison. For questions about this process in Housing, you may contact the HDH Housing Liaison by email or phone to discuss your situation and options.

Emergency Evacuation Plan

To request an Individualized Emergency Evacuation Plan (IEEP) send your request to: ieep@ucsd.edu . For additional information please see: Emergency Evacuation for People With Disabilities or Disability Resources .

Food Allergy Accommodations

UCSD Dining provides a robust and flexible Dining program that has been able to accommodate students with food allergies and intolerances. On-Campus Residents with food allergies requiring special Dining accommodations should contact the Office for Students with Disabilities (OSD) as early as possible and well before your first meal in dining. Accommodations will be made for students who submit their signed Authorization for Accommodation (AFA) Letter from OSD to the HDH Registered Dietitian. For questions about this process in Housing, you may contact the HDH Housing Liaison by email or phone .

Transgender Students

If you have questions about how you will be housed based on your gender identity, we strongly encourage students to contact the HDH Housing Liaison by email or phone to discuss individual and specific needs. More information on transgender living and the transgender community at UC San Diego is available at the LGBT Resource Center website .

Incoming freshmen / transfer students for the upcoming academic year will have an opportunity to apply to one of the Living Learning Communities after they complete the Housing Contract. Applying to a Living Learning Community is optional and not required. Information and instructions will be available during the process which typically takes place in May thru July.

Current residents eligible for Room Selection will be able to apply to one of the Living Learning Communities during that process once they have completed the Housing Contract. Details and deadlines will be posted on the Room Selection website during the process.

Services & Accommodations

Accommodation Needs