Programs and Events

International Student Orientation

iTriton Online Training

iTriton Online Training

This page has a friendly link that's easy to remember: iTriton.ucsd.edu

To help guide you through the adventure ahead, we have created an online training that will map out your journey as an international student here at UC San Diego. iTriton has been designed to provide you with information you should know before starting your program of study. This canvas course consists of several modules that cover topics such as preparing for your arrival to the U.S., working, settling in San Diego, and more! Pay close attention as these modules demonstrate some of the top issues international students face with their immigration status.

New ly admitted international students are required to complete the iTriton Online Training before t heir first quarter at UC San Diego.

All new students starting their programs in Spring 2026 must complete this REQUIRED orientation BEFORE their U.S. arrival or by March 25, 2026 (whichever is earlier ) .

Questions? Email iprograms@ucsd.edu

Accessing iTriton

*Please Note: In the iTriton training, immigration regulations are only applicable once you enter the United States in F1/J1 status.

How to access iTriton:

Before January 5, visit Canvas.ucsd.edu and login with your Active Directory/Single Sign-On to activate your student account. Please note that ISEO cannot invite you to iTriton Online Training until your Canvas account is activated.

Please note that ISEO cannot invite you to iTriton Online Training until your Canvas account is activated.

After January 5, check your email for an invitation from Canvas to join the iTriton Online Training . The course will also be displayed on your “Dashboard” or under the “Courses” tab in Canvas. Email iPrograms@ucsd.edu if you did not receive an email from Canvas or if you are having trouble accessing the course.

The course will also be displayed on your “Dashboard” or under the “Courses” tab in Canvas.

Email iPrograms@ucsd.edu if you did not receive an email from Canvas or if you are having trouble accessing the course.

Review modules and participate in discussions.

Have fun exploring, Tritons!

*Please Note: In the iTriton training, immigration regulations are only applicable once you enter the United States in F1/J1 status.

International Student Orientation

Orientation Assistant Program

iTriton Online Training