How to Declare or Change a Major (Undergraduates)

How to Declare or Change a Major (Undergraduates)

If you're an undergraduate and you want to declare or change your major, follow the steps below.

About undergraduate majors

Major requirements include both lower-division and upper-division courses. The requirements are determined by departments and programs, and will include at least 12 upper-division courses (48 units).

You must declare a major before you complete 90 units. Warning: If you don't declare a major by the time you complete 90 units, you won't be allowed to enroll in additional classes.

Declare or change your major

First, select your major.

Review the list of available majors .

Read major descriptions in the General Catalog.

Explore majors using advising resources .

Talk with your college advisor about your options.

Contact the department advisor about a specific major.

Read the Academic Senate policy on Majors (section A).

Be aware of department and college approval requirements.

Department approval is required if: You have 150 or more total units passed. Your major requires department approval.

You have 150 or more total units passed.

Your major requires department approval.

College approval is required if: You have 150 or more total units passed.

You have 150 or more total units passed.

You are required to submit a quarter by quarter plan for any request that requires college approval.

Complete the Undergraduate Declaration or Change of Major using the Major/Minor tool .

Some majors have limited space. If you are requesting a Selective Major or Screened Major you must complete all screening courses and meet eligibility. Some selective majors and screening majors do not allow Transfer students to request them.

Transfer Students: Some majors are restricted for Transfer students who did not meet transfer major preparation upon admission to UC San Diego. Consult the department advisors for more information.

Transfer Students: Some majors are restricted for Transfer students who did not meet transfer major preparation upon admission to UC San Diego. Consult the department advisors for more information.

Office of the Registrar , (858) 534-3144

International Students, contact the International Services and Engagement Office once your change of major has been approved.