Student Mail Services

Graduate Housing

All letter mail and packages for the Nuevo East housing community are handled by the Student Mail team in partnership with the Grad and Family Housing.

Letter mail and packages from USPS are delivered to Student Mail before being distributed to the Nuevo East mailroom within 1-2 days of receiving. All other carriers (i.e. UPS, FedEx, DHL, Amazon, etc.) deliver directly to the Grad and Family Housing team. During peak periods (i.e. move-in, Black Friday, Cyber Monday, Prime Day, etc.), letter mail and packages may be delayed up to 2 business days.

Please use the information provided below to assist you with all of your Nuevo East mail and package needs.

Upon moving in to your on campus residence, you will be assigned a box number. The box number is used to ensure the Student Mail and Grad and Family Housing teams can properly process your packages and letters. Your lived name and box number must be included in your mailing address. For proper and timely delivery, always use the following format:

*Your assigned box number can be found in your rental agreement under “Mailing Address”

Parcel Center Location & Hours

Location : The Nuevo East Parcel Center is located on the first floor of the Exchange building.

Hours : Check Graduate & Family Housing for hours.

Please be ready to present your Student ID and box number!

How to Pick Up a Package at Nuevo East

Receive an email from studentmail@ucsd.edu.

Visit the Nuevo East Parcel Center.

Present your Student ID and box number to the parcel center staff.

Receive package.

Mailbox Location & Combinations

Location : The Nuevo East mailboxes are located outside the Nuevo East Parcel Center, at the Exchange Building.

Hours : 24/7 Access

Please contact your Residential Services Office for your mailbox combination.

How to Open Your Mailbox at Nuevo East

Turn LEFT 3 times and stop at the 1st number.

Turn RIGHT one full turn and stop at the 2nd number.

Turn LEFT to the 3rd number. Pull to open!

NOTE: Locks may need to be pulled to the right slightly after 3rd number to open.

Students can send outgoing packages and letter mail at The Trove , located on Library Walk. The Trove is a full-service postal annex for all of your shipping and mailing needs. At The Trove, you can ship packages, purchase stamps or shipping supplies, and drop off prepaid USPS, UPS, or FedEx packages.

thetrove.ucsd.edu

Student Mail Resources

We’re here for you! Check out our resources for step-by-step guides, frequently asked questions, and mail policies.