Policies & Procedures

Please work with your graduate coordinator if you experience any of the issues below.

Grade changes due to clerical errors may be corrected by the instructor of record via eGrades (for a course taken within one calendar year).  This includes such errors as the incorrect grade was assigned or no grade was assigned and the course has lapsed to a U or F.  In these cases nothing is submitted to the Graduate Education and Postdoctoral Affairs.

Incomplete that has lapsed to a U or F

If the deadline to replace an “I” with a grade is missed (the last day of the quarter), the “I” will lapse to a U or F; the program chair and instructor must petition the Dean of the Graduate Education and Postdoctoral Affairs and the Educational Policy Committee (EPC) to retroactively assign the grade. The following items must be submitted to the Graduate Education and Postdoctoral Affairs for the Dean’s review. If approval is recommended, the Graduate Education and Postdoctoral Affairs will forward the request to EPC for their final decision.

General Petition with the “other” section filled out with ALL course information (grade to be assigned, course number, section, section id, number of units, and quarter the course was taken). Petition must be signed by the instructor and the Chair of the student’s home department.

Official supporting documentation explaining circumstances that prevented the grade from being assigned prior to the deadline.

After the Dean’s review, the Graduate Education and Postdoctoral Affairs will submit the request to the EPC for their final decision.

Extension of an Incomplete Grade

Extensions are not granted due to a leave of absence. Senate policy requires that an incomplete be completed by the end of immediately subsequent quarter, regardless of the student's registration status in that quarter. Extensions are considered ONLY in extenuating circumstances beyond the student's control; health reasons require verification from the health care provider. Request must be filed before the incomplete lapses to an F or U.

General Petition with the “other” section filled out with ALL course information (course number, section, section id, number of units, and quarter the course was taken). Petition must be signed by the instructor and the Chair of the student’s home department.

Official supporting documentation addressing the student’s inability to complete the pending work by the deadline.

After the Dean’s review, the Graduate Education and Postdoctoral Affairs will submit the request to the EPC for their final decision.

** Grade changes beyond one calendar year require the following:

General Petition with the “other” section filled out with ALL course information (grade to be assigned, course number, section, section id, number of units, and quarter the course was taken). Petition must be signed by the instructor and the Chair of the student’s home department.

A Clerical Error form recording the grade for the course and signed by the instructor.

Official supporting documentation explaining circumstances that resulted in the assignment of an incorrect grade.

After the Dean’s review, the Graduate Education and Postdoctoral Affairs will submit the request to the EPC for their final decision.

Academic Senate: Procedures for Requesting Exceptions to Senate Regulations

Non Discrimination Statement : In accordance with applicable Federal and State law and University policy, the University of California does not discriminate, or grant preferences, on the basis of race, color, national origin, religion, sex, disability, and/or other protected categories. More information about Proposition 209 can be found here . More information about the University of California Anti-Discrimination Policy can be found here.

Policies & Procedures

Academic Standing & Probation

Duplication of Degree

Repetition of Courses

Transferring Credit

Graduate Program Reviews