Student Services

Returning to UC San Diego

Returning from Gap Quarter(s)

Returning to UC San Diego after Gap Quarter(s)

International students must have a valid I-20 or DS-2019 after taking a Leave of Absence before they can re-enter the U.S. to resume their studies at UC San Diego. There are two different ways to return to UC San Diego. If you have any questions are reviewing the information on this page, please contact an ISEO advisor .

Option 1: Request Reactivation (One Quarter Gap)

Find information about SEVIS record reactivation for F-1 students who have taken one gap quarter away from their program at UC San Diego. J-1 students are not eligible for reactivation and must instead request a new DS-2019 at least 30 days before their intended return. See instructions on requesting a new Initial D S-2019 on the Regaining Status page.

Some students may be eligible for SEVIS reactivation. If your SEVIS record is reactivated by SEVP, then the I-20 would keep the same SEVIS ID number and the same SEVIS record, and you would maintain continuous F-1 status.

Eligibility for Reactivation:

You may be eligible for the reactivation of your SEVIS record if you meet ALL of the following criteria:

Your reported leave from the U.S. is LESS than 5 months. The 5 months are calculated starting from the quarter start date of your gap term and ending on the quarter start date of your return term. Your leave term is the academic quarter which you are not enrolled in at UC San Diego. If you are taking multiple gap quarters or if your leave is longer than 5 months, then your SEVIS record is not eligible for reactivation.

The 5 months are calculated starting from the quarter start date of your gap term and ending on the quarter start date of your return term.

Your leave term is the academic quarter which you are not enrolled in at UC San Diego.

If you are taking multiple gap quarters or if your leave is longer than 5 months, then your SEVIS record is not eligible for reactivation.

You have not been academically disqualified or suspended . If you have been academically disqualified or suspended, you need to request a new Initial I-20 from ISEO before returning to UC San Diego.

If you have been academically disqualified or suspended, you need to request a new Initial I-20 from ISEO before returning to UC San Diego.

You have reported your Gap Quarter to ISEO before the quarter start date of your gap term. Your SEVIS record must be terminated by ISEO due to an authorized early withdrawal.

Your SEVIS record must be terminated by ISEO due to an authorized early withdrawal.

You departed the U.S. before the quarter start date of your gap term. You have not entered the U.S. during your leave in another visa status (such as B-2 visitor or ESTA).

You have not entered the U.S. during your leave in another visa status (such as B-2 visitor or ESTA).

You will return to the U.S. to resume your studies. You will resume your studies at the next available quarter after returning to the U.S., which includes the UC San Diego Summer Session .

You will resume your studies at the next available quarter after returning to the U.S., which includes the UC San Diego Summer Session .

Possible Reasons for Reactivation Denial:

Your reported leave is more than 5 months.

You submitted your iServices request after the quarter start date of the leave term.

You departed the U.S. after the quarter start date of the leave term.

You have been academically disqualified or suspended.

Please be aware that Reactivation Approvals are subject to the discretion of the Student and Exchange Visitor Program (SEVP). As of June 2025, Reactivation requests are experiencing heightened scrutiny from SEVP and approval cannot be guaranteed.

If you are NOT Eligible:

If you are not eligible for Reactivation, you must request a new Initial I-20 on iServices . Please follow the instructions for "Returning with a New Initial I-20" on this page.

Request SEVIS Record Reactivation

Submit a F-1 SEVIS Reactivation Request in iServices :

A F-1 SEVIS Reactivation Request can be submitted as early as 60 days before the start date of your intended quarter of return . ISEO strongly encourages students to submit as early as possible to allow time for SEVP to review the reactivation request and arrive prior to the end of Week 2 of the quarter.

Find the Students Returning to UC San Diego category in the left menu. Choose the F-1 SEVIS Reactivation Request option.

Choose the F-1 SEVIS Reactivation Request option.

Upload a PDF copy of your airline ticket or flight itinerary showing the date of your planned return to the U.S.

ISEO will then submit the SEVP Data Fix request to SEVIS (the U.S. government), and they will either approve or deny the request. If you do not submit a timely request, you are at risk of delaying the SEVP Data Fix. Without an approved SEVP Data Fix to change your SEVIS Record from Terminated to Active, you will not be permitted back into the U.S.

If you do not submit a timely request, you are at risk of delaying the SEVP Data Fix. Without an approved SEVP Data Fix to change your SEVIS Record from Terminated to Active, you will not be permitted back into the U.S.

The actual processing time for the SEVP Data Fix is up to SEVIS, not our office.

Y ou will be notified via email when your SEVIS record is changed to Active.

Returning to UC San Diego

After your SEVIS record is reactivated, you may return to the U.S. using your most recent I-20.

Summer Session return : If you requested reactivation based on your return to the U.S. in the Summer, you are required to enroll in UC San Diego Summer Session classes.

If your reactivation request is denied by SEVP,  then you need to request a New Initial I-20 in iServices by following the directions below.

Upon re-entry into the U.S., you must complete the document self-check to verify that your immigration documents were processed correctly at the port of entry.

Option 2: Returning with a New Initial I-20/DS-2019

Find information about returning to UC San Diego with a new Initial I-20 or DS-2019 for students who are not eligible for reactivation.

You will need to request a new Initial I-20 or DS-2019 if you meet any of the following conditions:

You have taken more than one gap quarters or your leave is MORE than 5 months. The 5 months are calculated starting from the quarter start date of your gap term and ending on the quarter start date of your return term. Your leave term is the academic quarter which you are not enrolled in at UC San Diego.

The 5 months are calculated starting from the quarter start date of your gap term and ending on the quarter start date of your return term.

Your leave term is the academic quarter which you are not enrolled in at UC San Diego.

You reported your Gap Quarters to ISEO AFTER the quarter start date of your gap term. Students are not eligible for reactivation and must request a new I-20 if they submitted their iServices Gap Quarter Request to ISEO after the start of the gap term.

Students are not eligible for reactivation and must request a new I-20 if they submitted their iServices Gap Quarter Request to ISEO after the start of the gap term.

You have been suspended or academically disqualified . Students who have been suspended or academically disqualified must request a new I-20 or DS-2019 from ISEO before they return to the U.S., regardless of how many gap quarters they took.

Students who have been suspended or academically disqualified must request a new I-20 or DS-2019 from ISEO before they return to the U.S., regardless of how many gap quarters they took.

Your SEVIS record was terminated due to a visa status violation . Students with terminated records must request a new I-20 or DS-2019 from ISEO before they return to the U.S., regardless of how many gap quarters they took.

Students with terminated records must request a new I-20 or DS-2019 from ISEO before they return to the U.S., regardless of how many gap quarters they took.

You are a J-1 student. All J-1 students must request a new DS-2019 from ISEO before they return to the U.S., regardless of how many gap quarters they took.

All J-1 students must request a new DS-2019 from ISEO before they return to the U.S., regardless of how many gap quarters they took.

Understand the Impact of a New Initial I-20/DS-2019:

If you receive a new initial I-20/DS-2019 with a new SEVIS ID, you will need to pay the I-901 SEVIS Fee again. You will also be required to re-accrue employment benefit "time" before you are eligible for F-1 CPT/OPT or J-1 AT.

F-1 Students: May be eligible for CPT and OPT after completing one academic year (3 quarters) on the new SEVIS ID.

J-1 Students: May be eligible for AT after completing one quarter on the new SEVIS ID.

Returning to UC San Diego

Returning from Gap Quarter(s)

Transfer Back to UC San Diego