Scholar Services

Travel and Visa Application

Travel & Re-Entry

Travel and Re-Entry

J-1/J-2 Travel Signature Requests:

Always keep important documents with you while you are in the U.S. and abroad. At airports, train stations, and other transportation hubs you will need to present your original documents to establish your identity, so be prepared.

When making travel plans to travel outside of the U.S., it's important to be prepared. Please review the information below for advice about the documentation that you will need to carry with you when you return. For general information, please refer to guidance provided by U.S. Customs and Border Protection .

Traveling North?

You may be asked to present important documents when passing through checkpoints such as those in San Clemente or near Rainbow on the I-5 freeway.

Traveling Abroad?

When traveling to countries other than your home country or the U.S., remember that a new set of laws will be in effect, and you are likely to need a visa to enter that country.  Requirements and laws will vary based on the country to which you are traveling. To learn more about visa requirements, contact the country’s closest consulate in the U.S.

For information on travel to Canada and Mexico, please visit:

Canada: Citizenship and Immigration Canada

Mexico: Instituto Nacional de Migracion (visitor visas), or San Diego Mexican Consulate General (visa application)

Considerations Before Travel

Visit the iUpdates.ucsd.edu for current immigration, visa, and policy updates that could affect your travel and re-entry into the U.S.

If any of the following apply to you, please consult with an ISEO Scholar Advisor before traveling outside of the U.S.: I have applied for a waiver of the Two Year Home Residency Requirement (212e) I am considering applying or have applied for a change of status I am considering applying or have applied for permanent residency ISEO is planning to extend or file a petition to extend my status

I have applied for a waiver of the Two Year Home Residency Requirement (212e)

I am considering applying or have applied for a change of status

I am considering applying or have applied for permanent residency

ISEO is planning to extend or file a petition to extend my status

Will you need to apply for a visa? Be sure to check current visa appointment wait times . Please note: These wait times are just estimates and do not account for potential delays due to administrative processing. The process can sometimes take much longer.

Please note: These wait times are just estimates and do not account for potential delays due to administrative processing. The process can sometimes take much longer.

Will your travel require an official leave of absence from UC San Diego ? Check with your department administrator. Processes and offices involved may be different depending upon your appointment title: Postdoctoral appointments: Office of Postdoctoral Scholar Affairs/GEPA ( opsa@ucsd.edu ) Visiting Scholars: Office of Research Affairs ( visitingscholar@ucsd.edu ) Visiting Graduate Students: GEPA ( support.ucsd.edu ) Career Staff appointments: Human Resources/Health Sciences Human Resources Academic Appointments: Academic Personnel Service

Postdoctoral appointments: Office of Postdoctoral Scholar Affairs/GEPA ( opsa@ucsd.edu )

Visiting Scholars: Office of Research Affairs ( visitingscholar@ucsd.edu )

Visiting Graduate Students: GEPA ( support.ucsd.edu )

Career Staff appointments: Human Resources/Health Sciences Human Resources

Academic Appointments: Academic Personnel Service

Documents Required for Re-entry

To re-enter the U.S. and continue your program or employment, you must have the appropriate documentation. Be sure to prepare these documents while still in the U.S. and keep them easily accessible during your travels.

Valid Passport - Must be valid for at least 6 months beyond your return date. Visitors traveling to the U.S. are required to be in possession of passports that are valid for six months beyond the period of their intended stay in the U.S .  For a list of countries exempt from the six month rule, see Six Month Club . (Six Month Club validity on your passport does not apply to U.S. Citizens returning to the United States.)

Visitors traveling to the U.S. are required to be in possession of passports that are valid for six months beyond the period of their intended stay in the U.S .  For a list of countries exempt from the six month rule, see Six Month Club . (Six Month Club validity on your passport does not apply to U.S. Citizens returning to the United States.)

Valid Visa Stamp - Unexpired visa in your passport, if required Note: Canadian nationals do not require a visa to enter the U.S.

Note: Canadian nationals do not require a visa to enter the U.S.

Supporting Documentation - Varies by Status – see details below.

Required Documents: Valid passport (six months beyond return date) Valid (unexpired) J-1 visa stamp Valid Form DS-2019 with a valid travel signature from ISEO Request a travel signature via iServices; allow five business days for processing.

Valid passport (six months beyond return date)

Valid (unexpired) J-1 visa stamp

Valid Form DS-2019 with a valid travel signature from ISEO Request a travel signature via iServices; allow five business days for processing.

Request a travel signature via iServices; allow five business days for processing.

Recommended Additional Documents: Appointment letter Two most recent earning statements (from UcPath if paid by UC San Diego)

Appointment letter

Two most recent earning statements (from UcPath if paid by UC San Diego)

Note: An out of country notification notification to ISEO is required if: You will be outside the U.S. for over 60 days

You will be outside the U.S. for over 60 days

Required Documents: Valid passport (six months beyond return date) If your passport expires before the H-1B approval date, your I-94 end date may be shortened. Contact ISEO if this occurs. Valid (unexpired) H-1B visa stamp Original H-1B Approval Notice (Form I-797)

Valid passport (six months beyond return date) If your passport expires before the H-1B approval date, your I-94 end date may be shortened. Contact ISEO if this occurs.

If your passport expires before the H-1B approval date, your I-94 end date may be shortened. Contact ISEO if this occurs.

Valid (unexpired) H-1B visa stamp

Original H-1B Approval Notice (Form I-797)

Recommended Additional Documents: Copy of H-1B petition (I-129 and ETA9035) provided via email when H-1B was approved ISEO H-1B letter of support provided via email when H-1B was approved Earning statements from UcPath (past two months)

Copy of H-1B petition (I-129 and ETA9035) provided via email when H-1B was approved

ISEO H-1B letter of support provided via email when H-1B was approved

Earning statements from UcPath (past two months)

Required Documents: Valid passport (six months beyond return date) If your passport expires before the O-1 approval date, your I-94 end date may be shortened. Contact ISEO if this occurs. Valid (unexpired) O-1 visa stamp Original O-1 Approval Notice (Form I-797)

Valid passport (six months beyond return date) If your passport expires before the O-1 approval date, your I-94 end date may be shortened. Contact ISEO if this occurs.

If your passport expires before the O-1 approval date, your I-94 end date may be shortened. Contact ISEO if this occurs.

Valid (unexpired) O-1 visa stamp

Original O-1 Approval Notice (Form I-797)

Recommended Additional Documents: Copy of O-1 petition (I-129) Employer letter confirming continued employment from UcPath Earning statements from UcPath (past two months)

Copy of O-1 petition (I-129)

Employer letter confirming continued employment from UcPath

Earning statements from UcPath (past two months)

TN (Canadian & Mexican Professionals)

Required Documents: Valid passport (six months beyond return date) Valid TN visa stamp (Mexican citizens) I-94 Arrival/Departure record annotated with employer’s name Employer Letter of TN support or Employer letter confirming continued employment from UcPath

Valid passport (six months beyond return date)

Valid TN visa stamp (Mexican citizens)

I-94 Arrival/Departure record annotated with employer’s name

Employer Letter of TN support or Employer letter confirming continued employment from UcPath

For Canadian Citizens: A visa is not required for TN entry Canadian citizens are eligible for expedited reentry through the NEXUS program .

A visa is not required for TN entry

Canadian citizens are eligible for expedited reentry through the NEXUS program .

Required Documents: Valid passport (six months beyond return date) If your passport expires before the E-3 approval date, your I-94 end date may be shortened. Contact ISEO if this occurs. Valid (unexpired) E-3 visa stamp Copy of the Certified Labor Condition Application (LCA), if you applied for an E-3 visa abroad, OR original E-3 Approval Notice (Form I-797), if you applied for E-3 within U.S.

Valid passport (six months beyond return date) If your passport expires before the E-3 approval date, your I-94 end date may be shortened. Contact ISEO if this occurs.

If your passport expires before the E-3 approval date, your I-94 end date may be shortened. Contact ISEO if this occurs.

Valid (unexpired) E-3 visa stamp

Copy of the Certified Labor Condition Application (LCA), if you applied for an E-3 visa abroad, OR original E-3 Approval Notice (Form I-797), if you applied for E-3 within U.S.

Recommended Additional Documents: Copy of E-3 Certified Labor Condition Application (LCA) – provided via email when E-3 LCA certified by the Department of Labor Employer letter confirming continued employment   - available from UcPath or ISEO E-3 letter of support provided via email when E-3 LCA was certified by the Department of Labor Earning statements from UcPath (past two months)

Copy of E-3 Certified Labor Condition Application (LCA) – provided via email when E-3 LCA certified by the Department of Labor

Employer letter confirming continued employment   - available from UcPath or ISEO E-3 letter of support provided via email when E-3 LCA was certified by the Department of Labor

Earning statements from UcPath (past two months)

B-1 (Business Visitors)

Required Documents: Valid passport (six months beyond return date) Valid B-1 visa stamp Letter from UC San Diego department confirming business activities (see sample letter )

Valid passport (six months beyond return date)

Valid B-1 visa stamp

Letter from UC San Diego department confirming business activities (see sample letter )

WB (Visa Waiver Program - ESTA)

Required Documents: Valid passport (six months beyond return date) Approved ESTA (Electronic System for Travel Authorization) registration Letter from UC San Diego department confirming business activities ( sample letter )

Valid passport (six months beyond return date)

Approved ESTA (Electronic System for Travel Authorization) registration

Letter from UC San Diego department confirming business activities ( sample letter )

Dependents (J-2, H-4, O-3, TD, etc.)

Required Documents: Valid passport Valid visa stamp Supporting immigration documentation for derivative status

Valid visa stamp

Supporting immigration documentation for derivative status

For Canadian Dependents: Non-citizen Canadian spouses/dependents will need a TD visa stamp

Non-citizen Canadian spouses/dependents will need a TD visa stamp

Visa Stamp Renewal

If your visa stamp has expired, you will need to renew it in order to re-enter the U.S. For more details on applying for a visa, please refer to applying for a visa .

Visa: A visa is only required for entry into the U.S. Once inside, it does not need to remain valid. Many scholars have expired visas because they do not need to travel outside the U.S. However, if you do travel outside the U.S., you must have a valid, unexpired visa to re-enter. Visas can only be obtained outside the U.S. at a U.S. consulate.

Status: Your ability to stay and work in the U.S. is determined by your Immigration Document (DS-2019, H-1B Approval Notice, etc.) and your most recent I-94 record . Your status must always remain valid and unexpired while inside the U.S.

If you are traveling to adjacent countries, you may not need to apply for a new U.S. visa stamp. For more information, see the section on Automatic Visa Renewal below.

Third Country National Visa Applications

Per the U.S. Department of State (effective September 6, 2025), all applicants for nonimmigrant visas must schedule their visa appointments in their country of nationality or residence .

Applicants should check embassy and consulate websites for more detailed information about visa application requirements, procedures, and services.

Key details from the Department of State: Applicants must be able to show proof of residence in the country where they apply (if applying in their country of residence). For nationals of countries where the U.S. is not conducting routine visa services, alternative locations have been designated . Scheduling an appointment in a country other than your nationality or residence may make it harder to qualify for a visa. In such cases, fees will not be refunded or transferred.

Applicants must be able to show proof of residence in the country where they apply (if applying in their country of residence).

For nationals of countries where the U.S. is not conducting routine visa services, alternative locations have been designated .

Scheduling an appointment in a country other than your nationality or residence may make it harder to qualify for a visa. In such cases, fees will not be refunded or transferred.

Visa and Travel Incident Reporting to ISEO

You may face delays, denials, or challenges while applying for a visa or entering the U.S., visit our Visa and Travel Incident Reporting page for additional details on how to navigate these situations.

Visa Delays or Denials : Submit the Visa Delay or Denial eform in iServices to Keep your ISEO Scholar Advisor informed on the status of your visa issuance so we can provide guidance on next steps. Log into iServices.ucsd.edu and submitting the Visa Delay or Denial eform , your advisor will begin communicating with you to ensure your response plan aligns with the next steps, provide resources on how to proceed, and advise on any additional documentation or information you may need. Prompt responses are important, but having your advisor review your plan helps ensure you don't miss any critical details.

Log into iServices.ucsd.edu and submitting the Visa Delay or Denial eform , your advisor will begin communicating with you to ensure your response plan aligns with the next steps, provide resources on how to proceed, and advise on any additional documentation or information you may need. Prompt responses are important, but having your advisor review your plan helps ensure you don't miss any critical details.

Port of Entry Incidents: If you experience any issues, even if you are ultimately admitted, it’s crucial to inform your ISEO Scholar Advisor with as many details as possible about the incident. Your advisor can help assess the situation and guide you on any necessary follow-up actions, this will be important for any future travel and visa applications.

Port of Entry Denials : For immediate assistance, contact our emergency line at 858-534-3730 . We will take down your contact information and ensure that an ISEO advisor reaches out to you. You can also email your ISEO Scholar Advisor with the subject line "Port of Entry Denial." Please include as many details as possible regarding your interaction and the reason for the denial, as well as the best way to contact you.

Retrieve Your I-94 Upon Re-entry to the U.S.

Once you re-enter the U.S., please to to the CBP’s I-94 website and click “Get Most Recent I-94.” Enter your passport information and retrieve the generated I-94 record . Please make sure you review the information and that you were entered into the correct status and correct end date. If anything looks incorrect, please contact your ISEO Scholar Advisor .

What is the I-94? When you enter the United States, a U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) officer will create an electronic Form I-94 arrival record as part of the admission process. Upon entry, retrieve and print your I-94 from the CBP Form I-94 website .

Entering by Air or Sea: No action needed before travel. After entry, retrieve your I-94 online .

No action needed before travel.

After entry, retrieve your I-94 online .

Entering by Land Border: You must apply for an I-94 online within seven days prior to entry . There is an approximate application fee of $30 . After entry, retrieve your I-94 online .

You must apply for an I-94 online within seven days prior to entry .

There is an approximate application fee of $30 .

After entry, retrieve your I-94 online .

Record Not Found? Contact your ISEO Scholar Advisor for assistance.

Contact your ISEO Scholar Advisor for assistance.

Information Incorrect? Reach out to your ISEO Scholar Advisor for guidance.

Reach out to your ISEO Scholar Advisor for guidance.

CBP Travel Website

If you attempt to return to the U.S. without all of your valid documents, you may be subject to secondary inspection and/or denied re-entry.

It will be at the sole discretion of the port-of-entry officer to grant you re-entry to the U.S. Even if you are allowed entry, you may be issued a Form I-515A . This form allows a scholar to enter the U.S. for up to 30 days, during which the scholar must report to the Responsible Officer at their institution for required documentation. The 30-day period will be reflected on a date-specific I-94 Arrival/Departure Record (not stamped "D/S"). If you are issued a Form I-515A, please contact your ISEO Scholar Advisor for further assistance right away.

Automatic Visa Revalidation (AVR)

NOTE: ISEO Scholar Services does not recommend using AVR. If you are considering using this special provision, please reach out to your ISEO Scholar Advisor to discuss benefits and risks prior to your travel.

Automatic Visa Revalidation is a provision in which your expired U.S. entry visa is considered to be automatically extended to the date of reentry provided that your visa has not been canceled, and that you have not applied for a new visa. To take advantage of AVR your travel must be to contiguous/adjacent entities for less than 30 days . Rules governing AVR are found in the United States Code of Federal Regulations .

Eligible Travel Destinations:

Contiguous territories include: Canada, Mexico , and adjacent islands: Saint Pierre, Miquelon, the Dominican Republic, Haiti, Bermuda, the Bahamas, Barbados, Jamaica, the Windward and Leeward Islands, Trinidad, Martinique, and British, French, and Dutch territories or possessions bordering the Caribbean Sea

Cuba is excluded

H-1B workers can only use AVR for travel to Canada and Mexico (not the adjacent islands)

General AVR Requirements:

Trip duration must be fewer than 30 days and for business or leisure purposes.

AVR does not apply if you travel from a contiguous country (e.g., Canada) to a non-contiguous country (e.g., Germany) and then return to the U.S. via a contiguous country.

AVR is not available to individuals from countries designated as state sponsors of terrorism .

You cannot use AVR if you have applied for a new visa. You must wait for your visa to be approved to re-enter the U.S.

If you changed your status while in the U.S. but still hold a visa for your previous status, you may still use AVR as long as you bring supporting documents for your new status. Example: If you changed from F-1 to H-1B but only have an expired F-1 visa, you may still use AVR.

Example: If you changed from F-1 to H-1B but only have an expired F-1 visa, you may still use AVR.

I-94 Card Handling:

If you have a physical I-94 card, DO NOT surrender it when departing the U.S. You must keep it for reentry and automatic visa revalidation. If a flight attendant or officer requests your I-94 card upon departure, politely inform them that you are taking advantage of the AVR provision.

If you were issued an automated, electronic I-94, it will be verified electronically upon reentry, and you may use AVR if you meet all other requirements.

Important Considerations:

Entry to the U.S. is never guaranteed, and is solely at the discretion of Customs and Border Protection.

You may encounter an officer unfamiliar with AVR. We recommend printing out a copy of the Code of Federal Regulations to bring with you.

Scholars attempting to use AVR may be required to go to Secondary Inspection.

For more information regarding AVR, please visit the U.S. Department of State website.

Please note: you may require a visa to enter Canada/Mexico or Caribbean countries.

DHS Security Traveler Redress Inquiry Program (TRIP)

The Department of Homeland Security Traveler Redress Inquiry Program (DHS TRIP) is a single point of contact for individuals who have inquiries or are seeking resolution regarding difficulties experienced during their travel screening at transportation hubs—like airports and train stations—or crossing U.S. borders, including:

Watch list issues

Screening problems at ports of entry

Situations where travelers believe they have been unfairly or incorrectly delayed, denied boarding or identified for additional screening at our nation’s transportation hubs

DHS TRIP is part of an effort by the departments of State and Homeland Security to welcome legitimate travelers while still securing our country from those who want to do us harm.

Deferred Inspection: Correcting Entry Errors

Deferred inspection provides assistance to individuals who believe that their entry documentation or endorsements require review and possible correction after entering or re-entering the U.S.

What Can Be Corrected? Deferred inspection sites can only correct errors made at the time of entry , including:

Incorrect nonimmigrant classification

Inaccurate biographical information

Incorrect period of admission

How to Request an I-94 Correction

If you need an I-94 correction, you can contact U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) at I94SAN@cbp.dhs.gov .

Be sure to include: A copy/picture of your passport biographical page A copy/picture of your immigration document ( DS-2019, I-20, or I-797 Approval Notice )

A copy/picture of your passport biographical page

A copy/picture of your immigration document ( DS-2019, I-20, or I-797 Approval Notice )

Need Assistance?

If you believe your I-94 needs correction , contact an ISEO Scholar Advisor for guidance. We will review your documents and help determine whether deferred inspection is the best option for you.

Working from Outside the U.S or Traveling with UCSD Property

If you are traveling internationally for UC San Diego business or bringing UCSD property , safety and security should be a primary consideration. For more details, visit:

Export Control page for researchers

General Export Control Information

Working for UC San Diego While Outside the U.S. If you plan to work for UC San Diego while outside the United States , consult with your department’s human resources contact and any relevant offices based on your position title. There may be restrictions and policies that could impact your ability to work remotely from abroad. Anyone conducting UC San Diego research outside the U.S. must complete the Export Control Remote Work Review Form (SSO Required).

This form is routed to:

Export Control for compliance review

UCSD IT to ensure proper data access and licensing requirements in other countries

Travel and Visa Application

Difference Between Status and Visa

Apply for a U.S. Visa

Tips for Your Visa Interview

Visa and Travel Incident Reporting

Travel & Re-Entry

Travel Signature Request Form

Change of Status