Admissions Policies

Admissions Policies

Admissions Selection Process

The University of California San Diego offers admission to those applicants who have the highest potential for graduate study and who, with the benefit of graduate education, are most likely to contribute substantially to society and to their academic or professional fields through teaching, research, or professional practice.

The graduate admission process provides a great deal of autonomy to individual degree-granting programs. The faculty in each program reviews the applications and recommends admission or denial to the graduate dean.

Admission decisions are based on the quality of the applicant's academic degrees and record, the statement of purpose, letters of recommendation from professors or others familiar with the applicant's academic work, performance in aptitude and achievement tests as appropriate, relevant work experience, preparation in the proposed field of study, the fit between the applicant's goals and the program, and between the applicant's research interests and those of the program's faculty. Some programs have additional admission criteria that applicants must meet.

By the time they enroll, successful applicants must hold a bachelor's degree or the equivalent from an accredited institution in the United States or from a recognized university-level academic institution abroad. At least a B average (3.0 GPA) or its equivalent is generally required for admission. Satisfaction of minimal standards does not, however, guarantee admission, since the number of qualified applicants far exceeds the number of places available. As a consequence, many well-qualified applicants cannot be accommodated.

Academic Requirement

Duplication of Advanced Degrees

Normally, duplication of advanced academic degrees—MA, MS, PhD—is not permitted. A duplicate academic degree is one at the same level (e.g., a second master’s degree or second PhD), regardless of the discipline or the specialization awarding the degree. A professional degree at the master’s or doctoral level (e.g., AuD, DMA, EdD, MAS, MBA, MEd, MEng, MF, MFA, MIA, MPIA, MD, PharmD) is not regarded as a duplicate of an academic degree.

Students who already hold an advanced academic degree may be admitted to UC San Diego to pursue a second advanced academic degree at the same level only under limited circumstances, and only with the consent of the Graduate Council.

Notification of Admission

Only the official "Certificate of Admission" from the Dean of the Division of Graduate Education and Postdoctoral Affairs (GEPA) constitutes formal approval of admission to a graduate program at the University of California, San Diego. Official notification by the GEPA dean normally will be received well in advance of the beginning of the quarter for which an application has been made. Applicants should contact their prospective major department if formal notification is not received four weeks prior to the beginning of the quarter for which they applied.

Applicants admitted by March 15 generally are required to respond by April 15. Deadlines are shared and enforced by the program an applicant applied to. Applicants admitted after March 30 will have at least three weeks after the date printed on their formal letter of admission from GEPA to respond. Admission to graduate standing does not constitute registration for classes. A student is not officially registered for classes until the entire registration procedure is completed each quarter.

Denial of Admission

The Dean of the Division of Graduate Education of Postdoctoral Affairs or the prospective academic department may deny admission if an applicant's academic record is undistinguished, if the preparation is judged inadequate as a foundation for advanced study, if the program does not meet the applicant's area of interest, or if the program facilities are already filled to capacity.

Applicants who are denied admission must submit a new application together with required documentation in order to be considered for admission in the next or in a subsequent academic year.

Deferral Requests

Applicants who cannot register in the quarter to which they were admitted may request a Deferral for the following year or the following quarter within the same academic year. The department must approve the deferral request. A deferral is not a guarantee of admission. The deferred application may be considered along with the next year's applicant pool.

Part-time and Half-Time Study

Part-Time and Half-Time Study

Graduate students who enroll in fewer than twelve graduate or upper-division units each quarter are considered part-time students. Students who are approved by their major department and by the GEPA Dean for enrollment in a program of half-time study (maximum of six units or fewer) for reasons of occupation, family responsibilities, or health may be eligible for a reduction in fees. All other part-time students must pay the same fees as full-time students.

A general petition for half-time study must be completed by admitted students who wish to enroll for half-time study at UCSD. The petition is obtained from the graduate coordinator in the major program. The form must be filed with and approved by Graduate Division on or before the first day of registration. Formal approval for half-time study must be granted prior to any fee reduction.

Less than full-time study may be pursued in several master's programs and a few Ph.D. programs at UCSD. In all instances, students must satisfy the same admission requirements as full-time students and are eligible, at the discretion of the department, for a maximum 25 percent time appointment as a teaching assistant or graduate student researcher. International students on student visas are not eligible for part-time study.

Social Security Number Disclosure

Ethnicity Survey

Non Discrimination Statement : In accordance with applicable Federal and State law and University policy, the University of California does not discriminate, or grant preferences, on the basis of race, color, national origin, religion, sex, disability, and/or other protected categories. More information about Proposition 209 can be found here . More information about the University of California Anti-Discrimination Policy can be found here.

Application Fee and Fee Waiver

Examination Requirements

Records & Transcripts

Statement of Purpose

International Students

Admissions Policies University Policies

University Policies