See the Health Alerts and Campus EH&S Measles pages for up-to-date information on current outbreaks or emerging health issues that impact the campus community.

​Measles is a highly contagious illness caused by a virus for which there is no specific treatment or cure, and can lead to serious, life-threatening complications. Measles is easily spread through the air when an infected person breathes, coughs, sneezes, or talks and droplets can remain in the air for 2 hours after the infected person has left. Measles can also be spread from touching contaminated surfaces or when sharing food or drinks, shaking hands, or even hugging an infected person.

Once quite common, measles was declared eradicated from the United States (US) in 2000 through childhood vaccination; however, the disease still thrives in many parts of the world and is brought into the US by unvaccinated travelers who contract it while in other countries. People with measles are contagious 4 days before they develop a rash until about 4 days after the rash starts. As a result, large outbreaks of measles have become more frequent, particularly in close-knit communities with low vaccination coverage.

Common symptoms include:

Red, watery eyes

Symptoms of measles usually appear 7-14 days after contact with the virus and typically begin as flu-like symptoms. Koplik’s spots (red spots with white centers in the mouth) develop 2-3 days later, and the rash appears about 3-5 days after the initial symptoms appear. A high fever (104-105° F) often develops along with the rash. The measles rash usually starts on the face and may appear red, purple, or darker than the skin around it. The rash spreads downward to the neck, chest, back, arms, legs, and feet. It may be slightly raised or flat but is not itchy. Measles usually lasts 10-14 days if there are no complications.

People who are unvaccinated are much more likely to develop the disease, as are those who travel internationally to countries where measles is common. Additionally, people older than age 20 or younger than age 5 and those who are pregnant or have a weakened immune system are at increased risk of complications from measles.

Measles can be mild to life-threatening and can include:

Ear infections (bacterial) – one of the most common measles complications.

Bronchitis, laryngitis, or croup – measles causes inflammation in these areas.

Pneumonia – people with compromised immune systems can develop an especially dangerous variety of pneumonia that is sometimes fatal.

Encephalitis (brain swelling) – inflammation in the brain that causes vomiting or convulsions; can closely follow measles or may occur months later.

Complications during pregnancy – measles may cause pregnancy loss, preterm birth, or low birth weight.

When to Seek Care

Measles can cause severe illness and approximately 2 out of every 5 people with measles are hospitalized ( Cleveland Clinic, 2025 ). Anyone with known or suspected exposure to measles should monitor for symptoms and notify their medical provider. People with symptoms of measles should contact their medical provider immediately to make arrangements for evaluation. It is important for people diagnosed with measles to isolate, monitor symptoms closely, and get clearance from their healthcare provider before returning to normal activity. Patients with measles who have worsening or severe symptoms such as chest pain, difficulty breathing, or neck stiffness should seek emergency medical evaluation or call 911.

There is no specific treatment for measles. Instead, the focus is on symptom management and monitoring for worsening symptoms and complications. It is important to get plenty of rest, drink lots of fluids, and use over the counter (OTC) medications such as acetaminophen (Tylenol) or ibuprofen (Motrin) for fever, headaches, and pain. Gargling with warm salt water can also be useful to relieve a sore throat.

The best way to protect against measles is with the measles, mumps, and rubella (MMR) vaccine. To be fully protected against measles, two doses of the vaccine is necessary as receiving only one dose is less effective at preventing illness. While not impossible, it is far less likely a person will get measles once fully vaccinated with two doses of MMR. Contact SHS for questions about getting vaccinated or to request a measles antibody titer (blood test) to check measles immunity.

About Measles – Centers for Disease Control

Measles Cases and Outbreaks – Centers for Disease Control

Measles Infographic (PDF)

Measles (Rubeola) – Cleveland Clinic

If you are currently sick or injured and need medical advice, call (858) 534-3300 to speak with a registered nurse who can provide guidance. This service is available 24/7 to all students at no cost. You may also message the nursing team during regular hours via MyStudentChart: Menu > Student Health Ask-a-Nurse.

Advance Directives

Alcohol and Other Drugs

Breast & Testicular Health

Conjunctivitis (Pink Eye)

Eating Disorders

Emergency Contraception

Gastroesophageal Reflux Disease (GERD)

Gynecologic Cancers (PDF)

Hepatitis A, B and C

Human Papillomavirus (HPV)

Medication Abortion

Methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA)

Molluscum Contagiosum

Painful Periods (Dysmenorrhea)

Pelvic Inflammatory Disease (PID)

Physical Activity

Plant Dermatitis

Polycystic Ovary Syndrome (PCOS)

Pregnancy Testing

Temporomandibular Joint Disorders (TMJ)

Urinary Tract Infections (UTIs)

Vaginal Infections