Admitted Students

International Students

Admitted International Students

Welcome to UC San Diego

Congratulations on your UC San Diego admission! As a newly admitted international student, please complete the additional steps listed below.

Complete and Submit a Course-by-Course Evaluation to UC San Diego

All admitted applicants who have earned a degree(s) from an institution(s) outside of the United States are required to complete and submit a Course-by-Course evaluation to have their admission finalized. Please select one of the following companies to complete your Course-by-Course evaluation:

WES Course-by-Course ICAP evaluation

TEC Course-by-Course evaluation

*Please note that a Course-by-Course evaluation is not required to apply for an I-20 or DS-2019.

Apply for Form I-20 or Form DS-2019

Please wait until you have accepted your offer of admission to complete this step. You do not need to complete any of the steps below in order to start the process of requesting your Course-by-Course Evaluation.

All newly admitted students to a UC San Diego degree program are REQUIRED to request and obtain a Form I-20 (Certificate of Eligibility for Non-Immigrant F-1 Students) or Form DS-2019 (Certificate of Eligibility for Non-Immigrant J-1 Exchange Visitors) reflecting their intentions to enroll in a program of study with UC San Diego. This is true for all students who wish to study in the U.S. under the F-1 or J-1 visa status, even if they already hold a valid F-1 or J-1 visa stamp, or plan to transfer their SEVIS record from another U.S. Institution to UC San Diego.

Requests for the Form I-20 or Form DS-2019 must be made to UC San Diego's International Services and Engagement Office (ISEO) through the following steps:

1. You will receive an email from ISEO within 7-10 business days, inviting you to apply for your I-20 or DS-2019

2. While you wait for this email, you can still gather your supporting documentation in preparation for your application

Required Funding Documents : To receive the Form I-20 or DS-2019, you must prove that you meet the minimum funding requirements for the F or J visa category. Review our Funding Requirements webpage to learn more.

1. What minimum amount of funding you are required to show based on your program and level.

2. Which financial documents you can use to prove that you meet the funding requirements.

Supporting Documents : All documents must be in English. If additional documents are needed, you will be directed to upload them with the iServices request or by an ISEO Student Advisor upon review of your NEW ADMIT request.

Valid Passport : Submit a color copy of the biographical page of your current valid passport. Your passport expiration date must show that it will be valid for at least 6 months after the start of your program.

Copy of current Form I-20 or DS-2019 : If you will be transferring your active SEVIS record from another U.S. institution, upload a copy of your most recently issued Form I-20 or DS-2019.

Dependents : If you plan to have your spouse and/or children under the age of 21 accompany you to the United States on an F-2 or J-2 dependent visa, you must also provide the following:

1. Valid Passport.

2. Note, while ISEO does not require proof of your relationship to each dependent, we highly recommend you prepare official marriage certificates or birth certificates which may be requested at the time of the visa interview .

For questions regarding your I-20/DS-2019 or F-1/J-1 Visa, please visit iNewStudent.ucsd.edu or contact ISEO via iContact.ucsd.edu .

Attend Graduate Student Orientation

International Graduate Students must attend the International Student Orientation .  This is in addition to the Graduate Education and Postdoctoral Affairs New Graduate Student Orientation .

Meet the English Language Requirement

English Language Requirement for International Teaching Assistants (TA)

In order to serve as a Teaching Assistant for the first time at UCSD, international graduate students whose first language is not English must be certified as having the requisite English language oral communication skills (regardless of year in the program). International graduate students who are appointed as a Teaching Assistant without being certified are subject to having their TA appointment rescinded by the hiring unit or the Division of Graduate Education and Postdoctoral Affairs. This policy does not apply to students who serve as Teaching Assistants in courses conducted in a language other than English .

ISEO Webinars and Events

The Graduate Education and Postdoctoral Affairs and International Services and Engagement Office (ISEO) are offering a series of webinars this spring and summer to provide information to incoming international graduate students. Learn more at iNewStudentWebinars.ucsd.edu .

Welcome to UC San Diego: How to Request Your Form I-20/DS-2019 (Graduate Students)

Thursday, March 5 at 8:30am PT

Applying for your U.S. Student Visa (Graduate Students)

Tuesday, March 10 at 8:30am PT

Graduate Student Housing

Thursday, March 12 at 8:30am PT

Student Health: Insurance and Immunization Requirements (Graduate Students)

Tuesday, March 17 at 8:30am PT

Graduate Student Funding

Thursday, March 19 at 8:30am PT

English Language Requirements for Instructional Assistants (Graduate Students)

Tuesday, March 24 at 8:30am PT

Student Life & Getting Involved (Graduate Students)

Thursday, March 26 at 8:30am PT

Non Discrimination Statement : In accordance with applicable Federal and State law and University policy, the University of California does not discriminate, or grant preferences, on the basis of race, color, national origin, religion, sex, disability, and/or other protected categories. More information about Proposition 209 can be found here . More information about the University of California Anti-Discrimination Policy can be found here.

Admitted Students

What to Do Immediately

Before You Arrive on Campus

When You Arrive on Campus

International Students

Undocumented Student Guide