Records & Transcripts

Academic Records & Transcripts

By the time enrollment begins, successful applicants must hold a bachelor's degree or the equivalent from an accredited institution in the United States or from a recognized university-level academic institution abroad. Completed coursework for both domestic and international applicants must demonstrate the equivalent of at least a B average in the United States.

During Application Process

For application review purposes only, scan and upload copies of transcripts for all institutions attended after high school graduation. Please upload both the front and back sides of the transcript, even if the back side is blank.

Uploaded transcripts should be recent and include the details listed below. If a transcript is not available, please upload a statement explaining the circumstances.

Institution name

Dates of attendance

Grades/marks received

Degree conferral, if applicable

After Admission Decision

Upon provisional admission to UC San Diego, official documents will be required to finalize your admission and must be submitted to the Graduate Admissions Office for review. Official documents may include: final undergraduate transcript showing degree(s) awarded, final graduate transcript showing degree(s) awarded if applicable, post-graduate academic records, evaluations, mark sheets, diplomas, certificates, and translations. *Please note that admitted applicants who have earned degree(s) from institutions outside of the United States and plan to matriculate to UC San Diego are required to submit a Course-by-Course evaluation to have their admission finalized. Please select one of the following companies to complete your course-by-course evaluation:

WES Course-by-Course ICAP evaluation

TEC Course-by-Course evaluation

Submitted records become the property of the University, and we cannot return them to you or delete them from your applicant record . Certified electronic transcripts sent directly to Graduate Admissions from the issuing institution are also accepted.

If your institution uses Parchment services to deliver e-transcripts, you may request your document to be sent to "University of California San Diego Graduate Admissions." If your institution does not use Parchment services for e-transcripts, you will need to create an account with Parchment.com to have your official documents sent to UC San Diego.

If you are mailing your official documents, official transcripts must be delivered in a sealed envelope from the administering institution or service. Documents will not be accepted if opened or sealed by the student. If your academic record cannot be replaced, obtain a properly certified copy. If mailing your documents we recommend not requiring a signature upon delivery. Our office works a hybrid schedule and will not be able to sign if it is delivered on a day we are working remotely.

If you are not able to obtain an e-transcript from your institution, please have all mailed documents sent to the following address:

University of California San Diego Graduate Education and Postdoctoral Affairs (GEPA) - Graduate Admissions 9500 Gilman Drive #0003 La Jolla, California 92093-0003

Applicants with academic work in progress who expect to complete a degree program before the intended date of enrollment at UC San Diego must provide evidence of degree conferral and a final academic transcript as soon as they are available.

Non Discrimination Statement : In accordance with applicable Federal and State law and University policy, the University of California does not discriminate, or grant preferences, on the basis of race, color, national origin, religion, sex, disability, and/or other protected categories. More information about Proposition 209 can be found here . More information about the University of California Anti-Discrimination Policy can be found here.

Application Fee and Fee Waiver

Examination Requirements

Records & Transcripts

Statement of Purpose

International Students

Admissions Policies