Student Mail Services

Undergraduate Housing

Pepper Canyon East Apartments

Pepper Canyon East Apartments

All letter mail and packages for the Pepper Canyon East Apartments housing community are handled by the Student Mail team in partnership with The Trove.

Letter mail and packages are distributed to Pepper Canyon East Apartments mailboxes and The Trove within 1-2 days of receiving. During peak periods (i.e. move-in, Black Friday, Cyber Monday, Prime Day, etc.), letter mail and packages may be delayed up to 2 business days.

Please use the information provided below to assist you with all of your Pepper Canyon East Apartment mail and package needs.

Upon moving in to your on campus residence, you will be assigned a box number. The box number is used to ensure the Student Mail team can properly process your packages and letters. Your lived name and box number must be included in your mailing address. For proper and timely delivery, always use the following format:

*Check your housing portal (QwikPass) or ask your Residential Life Office for your assigned box number.

Parcel Center Location & Hours

Location : The Trove is located in Price Center West, on Library Walk.

Hours : Check Price Center for hours.

NOTE: Some packages—such as oversized items or those delivered during peak periods—are sorted into the Back Room at The Trove. Please refer to the email from studentmail@ucsd.edu for details.

Mailbox Location & Combinations

Location : Pepper Canyon East Apartments mailboxes are located in front of the Pepper Canyon East residential life office.

Hours : 24/7 Access with Student ID

Please contact your Residence Life Office for your mailbox combination.

How to Pick Up a Package from The Trove Lockers

Receive an email from studentmail@ucsd.edu.

Visit the lockers at The Trove.

Swipe your ID, scan the QR code, or enter the PIN provided in your email at the locker bank.

Receive package.

How to Open Your Mailbox at Pepper Canyon East

Turn LEFT 3 times and stop at the 1st number.

Turn RIGHT one full turn and stop at the 2nd number.

Turn LEFT to the 3rd number. Pull to open!

NOTE: Locks may need to be pulled to the right slightly after 3rd number to open.

Students can send outgoing packages and letter mail at The Trove , located on Library Walk. The Trove is a full-service postal annex for all of your shipping and mailing needs. At The Trove, you can ship packages, purchase stamps or shipping supplies, and drop off prepaid USPS, UPS, or FedEx packages.

thetrove.ucsd.edu

Student Mail Resources

We’re here for you! Check out our resources for step-by-step guides, frequently asked questions, and mail policies.