Enrolling at UC San Diego

Readmission (to the same program)

A student, not on an approved leave of absence, whose status has lapsed due to an interruption in registration, must submit a General Petition for readmission.

Student contacts program to request readmission. If approved, the program submits request to the GEPA's Academic Affairs via DocuSign unit. The student’s TritonLink financial account will be assessed the $135 readmission fee.

Students must submit supplementary transcripts to the desired departmet/program of all academic work undertaken since last enrollment at UC San Diego.

A Statement of Legal Residence is required by the Office of the Registrar for any student returning from an absence of two or more quarters.

The program may be required to submit a request for re-calculation of time limits if the student is a returning doctoral student.

After an absence in excess of 3 quarters, previous doctoral candidates may be required to re-advance to candidacy.

Petitioners must have been in good academic standing (GPA 3.0 or higher with no more than 8 units of U or F) at time of withdrawal.

Readmission (to a different program)

Students who have previously enrolled in a graduate program at UC San Diego must also go through the readmission process if they wish to begin a different graduate program. This process is coordinated by the new program, the original program (who must also approve the request), and the Graduate Education and Postdoctoral Affairs–Academic Affairs unit.

Students should contact the program of interest to check the requirements for readmission. Programs may choose to have students apply for readmission by using Slate in order to review the application materials along with all other applicants. After the application is complete, the readmit candidate is directed to inform the program in lieu of submitting the application and paying the application fee.

Regardless of whether Slate is used, once the program decides to readmit the student the final step is for the program to submit a completed General Petition, which includes approval from the original program, to GEPA'sAcademic Affairs unit via DocuSign. The student's TritonLink financial account will be assessed the $135 readmission fee.

The new program may be required to submit a request for re-calculation of time limits if the student is entering a doctoral program.

Readmission after Active Duty

Students who must report for active duty while enrolled in a term at UC San Diego are subject to the established readmission regulations of all UC San Diego graduate students. Refer to the readmission procedures outlined above.

Contact the home program for information on requesting a readmission fee waiver.

Withdrawn Student Returning to Defend

A withdrawn student who returns only to defend and submit the dissertation may need to reconstitute the doctoral committee and will need to pay the following fees: Readmission fee Filing fee, in lieu of registration

Filing fee, in lieu of registration

Students are advised to discuss and coordinate the above with their graduate coordinator well in advance of the scheduled defense.

Change Major or Degree Aim

This tool is only used when there is no break in enrollment ; if 1 quarter or more is missed, a General Petition for readmission is needed (see information above). [If the student is on an approved leave of absence, the student must be returned from leave into the original program before the change major form is submitted]

The Change Major or Degree Aim tool is accessed through GEPA’s Student Database

This online tool is used for the following:

a student wants to change major codes (e.g., from EC77 to EC78)

a student wants to change major codes (e.g., from EC77 to EC78)

a student wants to change degree aim (e.g., from MA to PhD, or MS to MBA)

a student wants to change degree aim (e.g., from MA to PhD, or MS to MBA)

a student wants to change both major code and degree aim (e.g., from MA in LA76 to PhD in HI75).

a student wants to change both major code and degree aim (e.g., from MA in LA76 to PhD in HI75).

For requests to change departments/programs, the student’s current home department/program must initiate the request. After home department/program approval, it will be routed to the proposed program for final approval.

A student must be registered for the quarter in which the change is requested.

Non Discrimination Statement : In accordance with applicable Federal and State law and University policy, the University of California does not discriminate, or grant preferences, on the basis of race, color, national origin, religion, sex, disability, and/or other protected categories. More information about Proposition 209 can be found here . More information about the University of California Anti-Discrimination Policy can be found here.

Enrolling at UC San Diego

In Absentia Registration

Leave of Absence/Withdrawal

Retroactive Enrollment

Visiting & Exchange Students