Student Services

Changes to Enrollment

Degree Level Change

Change of Degree Level at UC San Diego

If you have been accepted into a higher degree level at UC San Diego (for example, a BS/MS program, or changing from a Master's program to a PhD), then you will need to update your I-20 or DS-2019 to maintain your visa status.

Note: This guidance does not apply to EAP students, Sponsored Students, Global Exchange, Special Programs: HSI, or Summer Session Visiting Students.

F-1 Change of Program Level I-20

In order to be eligible to request a Change of Program Level I-20, you must meet all of the following requirements:

Maintain your current visa status.

Complete degree requirements for current degree level (unless enrolling in a joint program).

Acceptance into a higher degree level at UC San Diego Must have confirmed acceptance into a higher degree level at UC San Diego with the Department and the Division of Graduate Education and Postdoctoral Affairs. Must begin full-time enrollment in your new degree level within 5 months of your true program end/program completion date.

Must have confirmed acceptance into a higher degree level at UC San Diego with the Department and the Division of Graduate Education and Postdoctoral Affairs.

Must begin full-time enrollment in your new degree level within 5 months of your true program end/program completion date.

F-1 students must request the Change of Program Level at least 10 business days before the end of their 60-day grace period .

Students on F-1 Optional Practical Training (OPT):

You must begin full-time enrollment in your new degree level within 5 months of your OPT authorization end date.

If your OPT authorization ends after the start date of your new degree level program, then your OPT authorization will automatically end the day before the quarter start date of your new program.

Students currently on approved OPT or STEM OPT and changing degree level into the Summer Session Visiting Program should follow the steps on our Summer Session Visiting Program page .

Request a Change of Level I-20

Submit a Change of Program Level I-20 Request in iServices .

Find the Changes to Enrollment (F-1) category in the left menu. Select the Change of Program Level I-20 Request.

Select the Change of Program Level I-20 Request.

Prepare a PDF copy of: UCSD Admission or Petition Letter showing acceptance to higher program level. Financial documentation to show funding for the first 9 months of your higher program level .

UCSD Admission or Petition Letter showing acceptance to higher program level.

Financial documentation to show funding for the first 9 months of your higher program level .

Submit all of the required eForms. You will receive a confirmation email when your request has been successfully submitted.

ISEO has an average processing time of 10 business days . You will be notified via email when your request is complete.

Working and Traveling between Programs

Off-Campus Employment:

F-1 students need to apply for F-1 Optional Practical Training (OPT) work authorization in order to work off-campus during the break before your graduate program starts, including for unpaid volunteer work.

Your OPT will be completed on the expiration of your OPT EAD card or on the program start date of your new higher degree level, whichever is earlier.

SEVIS (the Student & Exchange Visitor Information System) registration is generally completed up to two weeks prior to the start of the new program start date. If you are unclear on when the change of program level I-20 will deactivate your OPT, consult with an international student advisor.

On-Campus Employment:

F-1 students do not need work authorization for on-campus employment during the break between degree levels. A student for whom a change of level Form I-20 has been processed to move levels within UC San Diego can continue working at the school during the school break following completion of the first program and the beginning of the next as soon as they obtain the Change of Level Form I-20 from ISEO.

If you are planning to travel internationally during the break in between your two degree levels, you will need to use your higher level I-20 to re-enter the US along with a valid F-1 visa and valid passport.

Take into consideration the impact your break between degrees may have on your housing, health insurance, access to campus services and more. You are strongly encouraged to have adequate health insurance during your stay in the U.S. Learn more about Student Health Insurance after Graduation .

Check-In to Activate your New I-20

Check-In for SEVIS Record Activation: Once you arrive to the U.S., you must submit the Check-In Request in iServices in order for ISEO to activate your F-1 status in SEVIS.

Deferring Program Start Date: If you will not be entering the U.S. for the start date on your new I-20, ISEO will need to issue you a new I-20 with a new program start date reflecting quarter you intend to enter the U.S. In this case,  submit the Updated I-20 Request in i Serv i ces : Find the Students Returning to UC San Diego category in the left menu. Select the Updated I-20 Request: Future Program Start Date option. Prepare a PDF copy of valid passport biographical page AND financial support documentation that meets I-20 funding requirements . Submit all of the required eForms. You will receive a confirmation email when your request has been successfully submitted. ISEO has an average processing time of 10 business days . You will be notified via email when your request is complete.

Find the Students Returning to UC San Diego category in the left menu. Select the Updated I-20 Request: Future Program Start Date option.

Select the Updated I-20 Request: Future Program Start Date option.

Prepare a PDF copy of valid passport biographical page AND financial support documentation that meets I-20 funding requirements .

Submit all of the required eForms. You will receive a confirmation email when your request has been successfully submitted.

ISEO has an average processing time of 10 business days . You will be notified via email when your request is complete.

J-1 Change of Program Level DS-2019

In order to be eligible to request a Change of Program Level DS-2019, you must meet all of the following requirements:

Maintain your current visa status.

Complete degree requirements for current degree level (unless enrolling in a joint program).

Acceptance into a higher degree level at UC San Diego Must have confirmed acceptance into a higher degree level at UC San Diego with the Department and the Division of Graduate Education and Postdoctoral Affairs. Must begin full-time enrollment in your new degree level within 5 months of your true program end/program completion date.

Must have confirmed acceptance into a higher degree level at UC San Diego with the Department and the Division of Graduate Education and Postdoctoral Affairs.

Must begin full-time enrollment in your new degree level within 5 months of your true program end/program completion date.

J-1 students must request the Change of Program Level at least 10 business days before the program end date listed on their DS-2019. J-1 students who plan to change program level should discuss their timelines directly with an ISEO Advisor .

Request a Change of Level DS-2019

Submit a Change of Program Level DS-2019 Request in iServices .

Find the Changes to Enrollment category in the left menu. Select the Change of Program Level DS-2019 Request.

Select the Change of Program Level DS-2019 Request.

Prepare a PDF copy of: UCSD Admission or Petition Letter showing acceptance to higher program level. Financial documentation to show funding for the first 9 months of your higher program level . This documentation must be in English and no more than 3 months old.

UCSD Admission or Petition Letter showing acceptance to higher program level.

Financial documentation to show funding for the first 9 months of your higher program level . This documentation must be in English and no more than 3 months old.

Submit all of the required eForms. You will receive a confirmation email when your request has been successfully submitted.

ISEO has an average processing time of 10 business days . You will be notified via email when your request is complete.

Working and Traveling between Programs

Off-Campus Employment:

J-1 students need to apply for J-1 Academic Training (AT) work authorization in order to work off-campus during the break before your graduate program starts, including for unpaid volunteer work.

Your AT will be completed at the expiration of your AT authorization on your DS-2019 or once the Change of Program Level DS-2019 has been processed, whichever is earlier. If you are unclear on when the change of program level DS-2019 will deactivate your AT, consult with an international student advisor.

On-Campus Employment:

If you are planning to travel internationally during the break in between your two degree levels, you will need to use your higher level DS-2019 to re-enter the US along with a valid J-1 visa and valid passport.

Take into consideration the impact your break between degrees may have on your housing, health insurance, access to campus services and more. You are strongly encouraged to have adequate health insurance during your stay in the U.S. Learn more about Student Health Insurance after Graduation .

Check-In to Activate your New DS-2019

Check-In for SEVIS Record Activation: Once you arrive to the U.S., you must submit the Check-In Request in iServices in order for ISEO to activate your J-1 status in SEVIS.

Deferring Program Start Date: If you will not be entering the U.S. for the start date on your new DS-2019, ISEO will need to issue you a new DS-2019 with a new program start date reflecting quarter you intend to enter the U.S. In this case, submit the Updated DS-2019 Request in i Serv i ces : Find the Students Returning to UC San Diego category in the left menu. Select the Updated DS-2019 Request: Future Program Start Date option. Prepare a PDF copy of valid passport biographical page AND financial support documentation that meets I-20 funding requirements . Submit all of the required eForms. You will receive a confirmation email when your request has been successfully submitted. ISEO has an average processing time of 10 business days . You will be notified via email when your request is complete.

Find the Students Returning to UC San Diego category in the left menu. Select the Updated DS-2019 Request: Future Program Start Date option.

Select the Updated DS-2019 Request: Future Program Start Date option.

Prepare a PDF copy of valid passport biographical page AND financial support documentation that meets I-20 funding requirements .

Submit all of the required eForms. You will receive a confirmation email when your request has been successfully submitted.

ISEO has an average processing time of 10 business days . You will be notified via email when your request is complete.

Changes to Enrollment

Academic Major Change

Reduced Course Loads (RCLs)

Program Extension

Degree Level Change

Enrollment Outside UC San Diego

Academic Disqualification and Suspension

Visa Status Violations

Regaining Status