Graduate Students

Graduate Students

Graduate students receive their primary funding through their department. For more information about graduate aid, please visit the Graduate Division website . If graduate support is limited, you may be eligible to apply for student loan options. Please note that graduate students are not eligible for UC Grant funding.

To apply for the loan programs complete the FAFSA or CA Dream Act Application for the upcoming academic year as early as possible. It is recommended that you complete your application in early spring to secure aid for the upcoming fall quarter.

Graduate students who file a FAFSA may receive a Direct Unsubsidized loan or a graduate PLUS loan , while those who file a CA Dream Act Application may receive a Dream Loan .  Dream Loans can award up to a $4,000 max per academic year to eligible graduate students.

How to Apply for Financial Aid

Use the links below to submit the application that’s best for you. It’s recommended to apply by the priority deadline to secure the best available funding.

The FAFSA - submit this application if you’re a U.S. citizen or an eligible non-citizen (ie, permanent resident). UC San Diego School Code: 001317 File / update your FAFSA Create Your New FSA ID FAFSA INFO

UC San Diego School Code: 001317

File / update your FAFSA

Create Your New FSA ID FAFSA INFO

The California Dream Act Application (CADAA) - submit the CADAA if you are an undocumented student who qualifies for the AB540 fee exemption. UC San Diego School Code: 001317 File / update your CADAA DREAM ACT INFO

UC San Diego School Code: 001317

File / update your CADAA DREAM ACT INFO

UC 2026-27 Priority Filing Deadline The priority deadline for the 2026-27 academic year is March 2, 2026.

The priority deadline for the 2026-27 academic year is March 2, 2026.

UC 2025-26 Priority Filing Deadline The priority deadline for the 2025-26 academic year was extended to April 2, 2025.

The priority deadline for the 2025-26 academic year was extended to April 2, 2025.

2025-26 If your financial circumstances have changed since you submitted your 2023 income information on the 2025-26 FAFSA or CADAA, you may be eligible to submit a Special Circumstances appeal to UC San Diego. Please visit Forms for details.

If your financial circumstances have changed since you submitted your 2023 income information on the 2025-26 FAFSA or CADAA, you may be eligible to submit a Special Circumstances appeal to UC San Diego. Please visit Forms for details.

2026-27 If your financial circumstances have changed since you submitted your 2024 income information on the 2026-27 FAFSA or CADAA, you may be eligible to submit a Special Circumstances appeal to UC San Diego. The Forms are available late Summer into the Fall quarter.

If your financial circumstances have changed since you submitted your 2024 income information on the 2026-27 FAFSA or CADAA, you may be eligible to submit a Special Circumstances appeal to UC San Diego. The Forms are available late Summer into the Fall quarter.

Financial Aid Basics

Eligibility & Enrollment Requirements - Learn what you need to do to maintain eligibility for loan programs.

Cost of Attendance - Use this estimated cost of attendance to help decide how much money you'll need to attend UC San Diego and how much financial aid you may need to meet that goal.

How You Receive Your Financial Aid - Link to resources that can help you manage your financial aid award.

Packaging Policy - Learn how the amount of financial aid you're eligible to receive is calculated, and in what order awards are made.

Timeline - Use this timeline to keep track of important filing deadlines and other events which begin the year before each new fall quarter begins.

Additional Resources

International Students

Many graduate departments award limited funding to international graduate students. Check these sources for more information on campus support and resources for international students:

The International Students & Programs Office (ISPO)

Global Education , which provides advice and resources

Finances for international undergraduate students

Outside agency scholarships for international students

Scholarships on FASTWeb , a free online scholarship search

Private Loan Programs

Undocumented Students

To be considered for state and institutional aid including grants, need-based scholarships, and university loans, undocumented AB540 eligible students must submit the CA Dream Act Application (CADAA) by the priority filing deadline of March 2 each year for maximum financial aid consideration.

Before submitting the CADAA, be sure that you’ve applied for AB540 status and that your status has been approved.

A Cal Grant GPA Verification Form will be automatically uploaded to the California Student Aid Commission. You can monitor and manage your Cal Grant account on the CSAC website.

Continuing students who have completed at least 36 units at UC San Diego will have their GPA automatically submitted to CSAC.

The Undocumented Student Services Center is available to offer additional support. Center staff are committed to serving our undocumented students and their families through holistic services and strongly advocate for generating a sense of community for all students who are undocumented or come from mixed immigration-status families.

Depending on your financial need, eligibility for certain programs, and other factors, you may qualify for various types of aid. Learn more about: Grants Loans Scholarships Work-Study * Summer Session Study Abroad/Exchange Programs * Undergraduates Only

Depending on your financial need, eligibility for certain programs, and other factors, you may qualify for various types of aid. Learn more about:

Study Abroad/Exchange Programs

Graduate Students Eligibility Requirements Cost of Attendance Packaging Policy Financial Aid Timeline How You Receive Your Financial Aid

Eligibility Requirements

Cost of Attendance

Packaging Policy

Financial Aid Timeline

How You Receive Your Financial Aid

Financial Aid Application Tips