Enrolling in Classes

Summer Session is a great way to continue your college education or take courses of special interest to you.

Facts about Summer Session:

Summer Session is divided into 3 sessions: Summer Session I is a 5-week session that begins the third week after the end of Spring Quarter. Summer Session II is a 5-week session that begins the week after the end of Summer Session I. Special Summer Session is used for terms other than 5 weeks, e.g., 2, 3, 6, or 10 weeks long. Note: The School of Medicine and Skaggs School of Pharmacy Summer Quarter is separate from the Summer Session Office. Contact those schools directly for more information.

Summer Session I is a 5-week session that begins the third week after the end of Spring Quarter.

Summer Session II is a 5-week session that begins the week after the end of Summer Session I.

Special Summer Session is used for terms other than 5 weeks, e.g., 2, 3, 6, or 10 weeks long.

Note: The School of Medicine and Skaggs School of Pharmacy Summer Quarter is separate from the Summer Session Office. Contact those schools directly for more information.

Attending Summer Session does not entitle you to enroll during the regular academic term.

Auditing classes is discouraged and occurs only with an instructor's permission.

If you are a visiting student, verify that UCSD credits are transferable to your college or university.

If you plan to attend Summer Session:

Eligibility and enrollment

Check key dates and deadlines

Eligibility to enroll in Summer Session : UC San Diego students (including incoming first-year and transfer students prior to their first fall quarter) Visiting UC students (students at other UC campuses) International students High school students Other visiting students (high-school graduates) and UC San Diego alumni

UC San Diego students (including incoming first-year and transfer students prior to their first fall quarter)

Visiting UC students (students at other UC campuses)

International students

High school students

Other visiting students (high-school graduates) and UC San Diego alumni

How to Enroll in Summer Session: Visitors

Tuition, Fees and Payment

UC Summer Session Financial Aid

Veterans Benefits

Calendars and Deadlines

Schedule of Classes (check the Summer Session website each spring to find a preview of courses before they're available in the official Schedule of Classes)

Campus Changes During Summer Session

Transportation and Parking

Grades, exams & transcripts

See About Grades

View your Academic History to access your grades

UC San Diego students' grades will be posted to their academic records

For an official transcript, see How to Request a Transcript . For students of other UC campuses, the UC San Diego Registrar's Office will automatically send a transcript to your home address.

Final exams are required