Student Services

Starting a New Program

Request the Form DS-2019

Request the Form DS-2019

The Form DS-2019 is the Certificate of Eligibility to gain and maintain J-1 student status in order to study in a degree program, or non-degree exchange program, at UC San Diego. The information on this page is relevant for:

New J-1 Students: newly admitted degree-seeking students who are currently outside of the U.S. and need to apply for a J-1 visa.

J-1 SEVIS Transfers: newly admitted degree-seeking students who are currently in J-1 status via another U.S. school (nearing graduation or on post-completion Academic Training), and need to transfer their SEVIS Record to UC San Diego.

New Exchange Students: newly admitted non-degree Exchange Students, who have been accepted to exchange at UC San Diego via the UC Education Abroad Program Reciprocity office or UC San Diego Global Exchange program .

Attention, Summer Session Visiting Students : If you will only be enrolling with UC San Diego for the Summer Session , and will not be enrolling in a UC San Diego degree program, please visit ISEO’s Summer Session Visiting Students webpage for instructions on requesting your Form DS-2019 .

Do not schedule your visa interview appointment until you have received your UC San Diego Form DS-2019.

ISEO strongly recommends you wait to invest financially in your U.S. flights and accommodations until after you have obtained your J-1 visa. Your ability to seek entry to the U.S. is dependent on having obtained both your Form DS-2019 and your J-1 visa.

Review our F-1/J-1 Visa Process Overview for more information.

Check out our Pre-Arrival Webinars!

Learn how to request your Form DS-2019 by watching our pre-arrival webinar:

How to Request Your Form DS-2019

Beginning the Form DS-2019 Process

To review eligibility requirements for the Form DS-2019 and J-1 visa, visit our F-1 and J-1 Visa Eligibility webpage .

Degree Students: You are eligible to request the Form DS-2019 if:

You have been admitted to a UC San Diego degree program; AND

You have accepted your offer of admission in your Applicant Portal.

Exchange Students: You are eligible to request the Form DS-2019 if:

You have received the email from the UCEAP Reciprocity or Global Exchange program notifying you of your acceptance to the exchange program at UC San Diego; AND

You have received an email from the International Services and Engagement Office (ISEO) instructing you to submit your DS-2019 request.

You must submit your Form DS-2019 request within the required timeframe:

Term of Admission Fall Quarter (September start) Winter Quarter (January start) Summer Term (June, July, or August start) Earliest you can s ubmit your Form DS-2019 Request December 1 September 1 December 1 Latest you can submit your DS-2019 request* August 1 December 1 May 1

Term of Admission

Term of Admission

Fall Quarter (September start)

(September start)

Winter Quarter (January start)

Summer Term (June, July, or August start)

(June, July, or August start)

Earliest you can s ubmit your Form DS-2019 Request

Earliest you can s ubmit your Form DS-2019 Request

Latest you can submit your DS-2019 request*

Latest you can submit your DS-2019 request*

*Requests for the Form DS-2019 may be accepted after these dates; however, timely issuance cannot be guaranteed. It is your responsibility to submit your Form DS-2019 request by the relevant date above.

Document Requirements

Prepare the following documents to submit as part of your Form DS-2019 Request:

Valid Passport. Prepare to upload a color copy of the biographical page of your valid passport. Your passport’s expiration date must be at least 6 months after the start of your UC San Diego program.

Required Funding Documents: Prepare to upload copies of acceptable financial documents proving you meet the Form DS-2019 funding requirements. Review our Funding Requirements webpage to learn what minimum amount of funding you are required to show, and which financial documents you can use.

Review our Funding Requirements webpage to learn what minimum amount of funding you are required to show, and which financial documents you can use.

Dependent documents: If you plan to have your spouse and/or children under the age of 21 accompany you to the United States on the F-2 dependent visa, you must also provide valid passport(s) and proof of funding for each of your dependents. Note: While ISEO does not require proof of your relationship to each dependent, we highly recommend you prepare official marriage certificate (for spouse) and/or birth certificates (for children), as these may be requested at the time of your visa interview.

Note: While ISEO does not require proof of your relationship to each dependent, we highly recommend you prepare official marriage certificate (for spouse) and/or birth certificates (for children), as these may be requested at the time of your visa interview.

SEVIS Transfer Students: If you are currently in J-1 status via another U.S. school ( nearing graduation, or on post-completion Academic Training) : Prepare to upload a copy of your most recently issued DS-2019. DO NOT have your current school release your SEVIS record to UC San Diego until an ISEO Student Advisor has reviewed and approved your Form DS-2019 request (see next section). For more information on the J-1 SEVIS Transfer process, see here .

Prepare to upload a copy of your most recently issued DS-2019.

DO NOT have your current school release your SEVIS record to UC San Diego until an ISEO Student Advisor has reviewed and approved your Form DS-2019 request (see next section). For more information on the J-1 SEVIS Transfer process, see here .

Request your Form DS-2019 in iServices

iServices ( iServices.ucsd.edu ) is ISEO's document and service request portal for international students. Review ISEO's iServices Instructions for Students page for helpful information on accessing, submitting requests through, and troubleshooting with, iServices.

To access iServices:

Login to iServices ( iServices.ucsd.edu ) .* Summer start students: If you were admitted to a Summer start program (June, July, August), log into iServices using your Active Directory credentials ( not Student SSO). Fall start students : Once you accept your offer of admission, you will receive an email from ISEO inviting you to apply for your Form DS-2019. Look for an email with the subject line “ Welcome ! Immigration Information for Newly Admitted International Students ” . While you wait for this email, you can gather all required supporting documentation (see above) in preparation for your application .

Summer start students: If you were admitted to a Summer start program (June, July, August), log into iServices using your Active Directory credentials ( not Student SSO).

Fall start students : Once you accept your offer of admission, you will receive an email from ISEO inviting you to apply for your Form DS-2019. Look for an email with the subject line “ Welcome ! Immigration Information for Newly Admitted International Students ” . While you wait for this email, you can gather all required supporting documentation (see above) in preparation for your application .

To submit your Form DS-2019 request:

In the iServices menu, click Starting a New Program at UC San Diego .

Select the appropriate request based on your situation: New Admit Form DS-2019 Request if you will begin your degree program with UC San Diego in J-1 visa status. This includes SEVIS Transfers. New Admit Change of Status to F-1 or J-1 Request if you are currently in the U.S. in a different non-immigrant visa status (i.e. F-2, H-4, L-2, etc.) with intention to apply to change to J-1 status with USCIS without departing the U.S. If you are in the U.S. and wish to change to F-1 status by travel, do not use this request.

New Admit Form DS-2019 Request if you will begin your degree program with UC San Diego in J-1 visa status. This includes SEVIS Transfers.

New Admit Change of Status to F-1 or J-1 Request if you are currently in the U.S. in a different non-immigrant visa status (i.e. F-2, H-4, L-2, etc.) with intention to apply to change to J-1 status with USCIS without departing the U.S. If you are in the U.S. and wish to change to F-1 status by travel, do not use this request.

Complete all required eforms within the request.

Submit the request by submitting the “Submission Confirmation” eform last.

When you have successfully submitted a request, the status of your request will be "Pending Office Approval."

Processing Time for DS-2019 Issuance

If you have submitted a Form DS-2019 request, you will receive email confirmation of your submission. ISEO processes Form DS-2019 requests on a first‑come, first‑served basis. During peak season, it can take up to approximately three weeks to issue your Form DS-2019 once we receive a complete request.

If your request is missing any items or does not meet the requirements, ISEO will follow up with you via email. Incomplete requests require additional follow‑up and will delay document issuance. ISEO works to support all students as quickly as possible. However, it is ultimately the student’s responsibility to submit a complete and accurate New Admit DS-2019 request.

SEVIS Transfer Students: Standard processing time begins once your complete and accurate New Admit DS-2019 request is preliminary approved in iServices, and your prior institution has released your SEVIS record to UC San Diego.

ISEO does not expedite New Admit Form DS-2019 requests under any circumstances.

Receiving your Form DS-2019

Your Form DS-2019 will be sent to your UC San Diego email once it has been issued. You will also be able to download it from the Documents section of iServices .

Review your Form DS-2019 for accuracy. If everything looks accurate, print and sign it. The Form DS-2019 must be signed with a wet signature in blue ink.

Review the following on your Form DS-2019 for accuracy:

SEVIS ID Number: Your SEVIS ID number is in the top right corner of your Form DS-2019, and starts with the letter "N". Your SEVIS ID is your unique J-1 status ID number. SEVIS Transfer Students: If you transferred your SEVIS record to UC San Diego, the SEVIS ID number on your UC San Diego DS-2019 should be the same as your previous institution's DS-2019.

SEVIS Transfer Students: If you transferred your SEVIS record to UC San Diego, the SEVIS ID number on your UC San Diego DS-2019 should be the same as your previous institution's DS-2019.

Biographical Information: ISEO will always use the legal information listed in your passport.

Program Information: Form Covers Period: Reflects the start and end date of your program. You are expected to arrive to UC San Diego by the displayed start date (“From”). Exchange Visitor Category Degree-Seeking Students: Bachelors, Masters, Doctorate Exchange Students: Non-degree Subject/Field Code: Degree Students: Although some CIP Codes may sound different from the name of your major/field of study as listed within TritonLink , it does not mean the code is incorrect. A full list of UC San Diego major/field of study codes and corresponding CIP codes can be reviewed here . Classifications are not determined by ISEO. Exchange Students: All exchange students receive a CIP code of 24.0199 Liberal Arts and Sciences, General Studies and Humanities, Other . This is because exchange students are not earning a degree from UC San Diego and are therefore not admitted to a specific major/field of study while at UC San Diego.

Form Covers Period: Reflects the start and end date of your program. You are expected to arrive to UC San Diego by the displayed start date (“From”).

Exchange Visitor Category Degree-Seeking Students: Bachelors, Masters, Doctorate Exchange Students: Non-degree

Degree-Seeking Students: Bachelors, Masters, Doctorate

Exchange Students: Non-degree

Subject/Field Code: Degree Students: Although some CIP Codes may sound different from the name of your major/field of study as listed within TritonLink , it does not mean the code is incorrect. A full list of UC San Diego major/field of study codes and corresponding CIP codes can be reviewed here . Classifications are not determined by ISEO. Exchange Students: All exchange students receive a CIP code of 24.0199 Liberal Arts and Sciences, General Studies and Humanities, Other . This is because exchange students are not earning a degree from UC San Diego and are therefore not admitted to a specific major/field of study while at UC San Diego.

Degree Students: Although some CIP Codes may sound different from the name of your major/field of study as listed within TritonLink , it does not mean the code is incorrect. A full list of UC San Diego major/field of study codes and corresponding CIP codes can be reviewed here . Classifications are not determined by ISEO.

Exchange Students: All exchange students receive a CIP code of 24.0199 Liberal Arts and Sciences, General Studies and Humanities, Other . This is because exchange students are not earning a degree from UC San Diego and are therefore not admitted to a specific major/field of study while at UC San Diego.

Funding: Ensure your funding sources are accurate.

ARO Signature: Ensure there is a valid signature from an ISEO Staff Member (“Alternate Responsible Officer”) on the first page.

If you need to edit any information on your Form DS-2019, follow instructions here .

Applying for your J-1 Visa

Once you have received your Form DS-2019, follow these instructions to apply for your J-1 visa.

Frequently Asked Questions

Have questions about the Form DS-2019 and immigration process? Review ISEO’s Advising Resources for New F-1 and J-1 Students.

RETURN TO iNEWSTUDENTS HOMEPAGE

Starting a New Program

Visa Process Overview

Request the Form I-20

Request the Form DS-2019

Advising Resources

Immigration Resources

Additional Resources