Parents & Families

Parents & Families

Student Health Services is part of the Student Health and Well-Being (SHW) cluster which is comprised of Student Health Services (SHS) , Health Promotion Services (HPS) , and Counseling and Psychological Services (CAPS) . The SHW cluster is a one-stop destination that takes a holistic approach to supporting students’ physical and mental health throughout their academic journey.

New students should activate their MyStudentChart portal using their UCSD Student AD Login credentials. This portal allows students to receive important messages and reminders from their care team and self-schedule appointments.

Care of Minor Students - Required Forms

Consent for Medical Treatment of Minors (PDF) for any student under 18 years of age seeking health care at SHS. Fax the completed form with signature of parent/guardian to our Medical Records Department at (858) 534-7545.

HIPAA and Privacy

HIPAA is the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 which explains patient rights regarding protected health information (PHI). SHS can only discuss a student’s medical information with parents/guardians if the student gives express authorization to do so by completing an Authorization to Release or Exchange Confidential Information form.

All registered students, regardless of insurance, are eligible to receive medical care at SHS. The clinic is conveniently located on campus; learn more about Available Services and see Hours and Location . An overview of coverage and fees is available on the Cost of Services page.

Students under 18 years of age must have a parent or legal guardian sign a Consent for Medical Treatment form before they can be seen at SHS. The form should be signed and faxed to the Medical Records Department at (858) 534-7545.

Primary Care Providers

SHS offers a personal primary care provider (PCP) model of service. Students can choose their PCP and can schedule appointments by calling (858) 534-3300 or self-schedule online in their MyStudentChart account.

Specialized Services

Support for students with: Disordered Eating Polycystic Ovary Syndrome (PCOS)

Disordered Eating

Polycystic Ovary Syndrome (PCOS)

Nutrition Services

Reproductive Health

Travel Clearance

TB Screening and Immunizations

The health of the individual can affect the health of the campus community, and UC San Diego is committed to protecting the well-being of all our students. All incoming and re-admitted graduate and undergraduate students are required to meet the UC Immunization and Tuberculosis (TB) Screening Requirements .

The first step for students is activating their MyStudentChart account using their UCSD AD Login credentials.

Please note: the student will not be able to register for classes until they have fulfilled this requirement.

Undergraduate and graduate students at UC San Diego can receive coverage through the UC (systemwide) Student Health Insurance Plan, or UC SHIP . Students are automatically enrolled in UC SHIP when they enroll in the quarter unless they choose to waive out before the deadline. With UC SHIP coverage, most services at SHS are available at no charge to the student.

Some students who waive out of UC SHIP choose to enroll in the Reduced Access Fee for Tritons (RAFT) , which allows access to SHS primary care visits and in-house laboratory testing and x-ray at no charge to students.

For those who plan to waive out of UC SHIP, guidance is available about transferring insurance coverage to San Diego.

Substance Use Resources for Students

The Health Promotion Services (HPS) team offers a variety of services and programs including Substance Use Education and general Health Coaching for students. HPS’s Collegiate Recovery Program is a safe space and supportive community for students in recovery or seeking recovery from addiction or harmful behaviors.

UC San Diego, like all University of California campuses, is a smoke and tobacco-free campus . The HPS team offers free Smoking/Vaping Cessation Coaching to all UC San Diego students.

Insurance and UC SHIP

Willo (UCSD Well-Being App)

Health Promotion Services (HPS)

Counseling and Psychological Services (CAPS)

Commonly Used Forms

Urgent Care & After-Hours Care

Chaperone Policy

Health Requirements

Interpreter Services

Parents & Families

UC SHIP Dental Plan

Where to Get Care