Financial Support

Employment Opportunities

Job Opportunities Bulletin

Job Opportunities Bulletin

Academic & Staff Titles

This resource is written to assist graduate students who are seeking employment outside of their own academic home departments. Students can be appointed to student academic positions (Teaching Assistant, Reader, Tutor, Associate or Graduate Student Researcher) by a department, group or program or employed in student staff positions which are listed by the Career Center (Student Employment Office) in the Handshake system .

Students appointed to the Teaching Assistant, Reader, Tutor and Associate titles (ASE) are under Agreement between the Regents of the University of California and the Coalition of Academic Student Employees, International Union, United Automobile, Aerospace and Agricultural Implement Workers of America (UAW), AFL-CIO. The Agreement and ASE title definitions are available here .

Academic Student Employees: Types of Academic Student Employment

Graduate Student Researcher (GSR): A GSR is a registered graduate student who performs research under the direction of a faculty member or authorized Principal Investigator.

Student Staff Titles: Graduate students can also be employed part-time on assistant titles . Departments list these jobs through the Student Employment Office, a division of the Career Center. Positions may be viewed in Handshake .

Contact the Financial Support Unit via the Student Support Portal in Services & Support.

Non Discrimination Statement : In accordance with applicable Federal and State law and University policy, the University of California does not discriminate, or grant preferences, on the basis of race, color, national origin, religion, sex, disability, and/or other protected categories. More information about Proposition 209 can be found here . More information about the University of California Anti-Discrimination Policy can be found here.

Employment Opportunities

Job Opportunities Bulletin Career Center Chemistry and Biochemistry Chinese Studies Japanese Studies Linguistics Language Program Physics Summer Session Teaching and Learning Commons Urban Studies and Planning Writing Programs

Chemistry and Biochemistry

Japanese Studies

Linguistics Language Program

Teaching and Learning Commons

Urban Studies and Planning

Writing Programs