Scholar Services

iServices Instructions for Scholars

J-1/J-2 Travel Signature

J-1/J-2 Travel Signature

iServices Processing

Log in to iServices

Logging in to the "Limited Services" Portal requires the following information: Date of Birth iServices ID number r (find in email from ISEO) Limited Access Pin number (find in email from ISEO)

iServices ID number r (find in email from ISEO)

iServices ID number r (find in email from ISEO)

Limited Access Pin number (find in email from ISEO)

Limited Access Pin number (find in email from ISEO)

NOTE: VPN NOT REQUIRED TO ACCESS THE PORTAL

Please be sure to save the log in credentials provided to you

If you encounter difficulty accessing iServices, please email ischolars@ucsd.edu .

If you have been issued a UCSD email account, please log in through the "Full Client Services" Portal.

Steps to Take Before Requesting a Travel Signature

Have you registered and attended orientation?

Check if you already have a valid travel signature

Please review your current DS-2019 for a travel signature, located in the Travel Validation section:

Travel signatures are valid for up to one year or until the end date of the most recent DS-2019 (whichever date is sooner).

Determine if you will need to request a Leave of Absence

A leave of absence is required if:

You are traveling for business for more than 30 days

You are traveling for personal reasons for more than 60 days

Leaves of Absence can be submitted via iServices. Please also make sure to discuss any extended leave with your department.

Do you have a valid J-1/J-2 visa?

Other considerations

Is your program ending soon? We do not recommend traveling within the last month of your program. If you are considering this, please reach out to your advisor

We do not recommend traveling within the last month of your program. If you are considering this, please reach out to your advisor

Have you applied for the waiver? Please reach out to your advisor for guidance. When you reach out, please be prepared with the current status of your waiver application.

Please reach out to your advisor for guidance. When you reach out, please be prepared with the current status of your waiver application.

Have you filed an I-140, I-130, or other Permanent Residency form? Please reach out to your advisor, as traveling after beginning the permanent residency process can be risky

Please reach out to your advisor, as traveling after beginning the permanent residency process can be risky

Travel Signature Request

Locate the J-1 Travel Signature Request eform under the Scholar Services page.

Indicate who will require a travel signature (J-1 principal, J-2 dependents, or all)

Include estimated travel dates so we are aware if your request is urgent

Verify that you and all J-2 dependents, if any, are currently covered under appropriate levels of health insurance

Standard Processing: Allow 5 days for ISEO processing after submission.

DS-2019 Signatures and Travel

Each DS-2019 signature box has a different purpose — you don't need all of them signed when traveling internationally.

Box 7: Alternate Responsible Officer Signature

Purpose: This is the primary signature required for your DS-2019 to be valid. This box must be signed by an Alternate Responsible Officer at your program sponsor. For UC San Diego, this means it must be signed by a Scholar Advisor at ISEO. This box must be signed in order for your DS-2019 to be used for visa appointments, travel, or I-9 processing with your department.

Preliminary Endorsement of Consular or Immigration Officer Regarding Section 212(e)

Purpose: This signature is only received at visa appointments, when the consular officer signs to indicate if you are subject to the 212(e) Two-Year Home Residence Requirement. At your appointment, the consular official will mark whether or not you are subject. This signature is not required for your DS-2019 to be valid or for travel. Many DS-2019s will not have this signature, and that is okay — as long as the 212(e) designation matches your visa.

Travel Validation by Responsible Officer

Purpose: Often called a “travel signature,” this must come from an Alternate Responsible Officer at your J-1 program sponsor. When signing, the ARO confirms that you have maintained good standing in your J-1 program by meeting program objectives, arriving on campus as planned, and maintaining required health insurance. This signature is required if you travel internationally, as you will need it when re-entering the U.S.

Exchange Visitor Certification

Purpose: This is where your signature goes. When you receive a DS-2019, you must print it and sign this box in ink. By signing, you confirm that you have read Page 2 of the DS-2019 and understand the Exchange Visitor (J Non-Immigrant) Certification.

What signatures do I need when I travel?

When re-entering the U.S. after international travel, you will need:

Box 7 (Alternate Responsible Officer signature)

Travel Validation by Responsible Officer (travel signature)

Exchange Visitor Certification (your signature)

But don’t I need the Consular signature?

The only purpose of the consular signature is to indicate whether you are subject to 212(e). It does not validate your DS-2019. Some scholars — such as those who change status within the U.S. and never apply for a visa — will never receive one. Since this signature is only issued at visa appointments, it is normal to have DS-2019s without it. Not having a consular signature does not affect the validity of your J-1 program or your ability to enter the U.S.

iServices Instructions for Scholars

Initial J-1 Requests

J-1 Extension Request

H-1B/E-3/TN Initial Requests

H-1B/E-3/TN Extension/Amendment Requests

Register with ISEO

J-1 Scholar Insurance Verification

J-1/J-2 Travel Signature

J-1 Scholar Out of Country Notification

Update Contact Information

Replacement DS-2019

J-1 Student Intern

J-1 Occasional Lecture/Consultation

Separation/Departure/Transfer Out

Change to Permanent Residency

Other Status Registration