Gender-Affirming Care

Gender-Affirming Care

Student Health Services is committed to providing gender-affirming medical care that prioritizes the health and safety of patients. We recognize students who are transgender, non-binary, intersex, and gender diverse may be coping with discrimination, the effect of hormones, and dysphoria in addition to the baseline stressors of being a student at UCSD. We are sensitive to how difficult it can be to access care and believe everyone has a right to be treated with care and respect.

Gender-affirming care providers at SHS can help students understand their options and access care. Those with UC SHIP have insurance benefits including hormone therapy, hair removal, voice coaching, fertility preservation, and gender affirming surgery. Those with RAFT can receive gender-affirming hormone care at SHS and have prescriptions sent to an outside pharmacy.

To learn more about gender-affirming care at SHS or make an appointment, call (858) 534-2669 or email studenthealth@health.ucsd.edu with questions. The STRIDE team can also provide support, resources, and education for undergraduate and graduate students free of charge, with or without insurance.

Can Student Health Services prescribe hormone therapy for me?

Yes. Students who want hormone therapy will first schedule an appointment with a provider who specializes in gender-affirming care. During the appointment, the student’s gender identity, goals, and medical history will be discussed. The provider will order laboratory tests and may perform a brief physical exam. The risks and benefits of hormone therapy will be reviewed, including what changes to expect, and a plan of care will be established. The goal is to help students have all the information needed to make the best decision for their treatment.

What is hormone therapy?

How is hormone therapy used?

Some people take hormones regularly over a lifetime, others may choose to take them short-term or even intermittently. The type of delivery method, dose, and timing of hormones is an individual decision and varies based on each person’s goals and how their body responds.

What hormones are used?

Testosterone is used to reduce estrogen-related features and induce testosterone-related features (such as voice tone, body hair, and body composition) to make people feel more at ease in their body. Each person responds differently to taking testosterone and the amount of change varies from person to person. Testosterone – Fact Sheet *

Estrogen and testosterone-blockers are used to reduce testosterone-related features and induce estrogen-related features (such as breast size, body hair, and body composition) to make people feel more at ease in their body. Each person responds differently to taking estrogen and testosterone-blockers and the amount of change varies from person to person. Estrogen and Testosterone-Blockers – Fact Sheet *

Do I need to take hormones?

No. The decision to take gender-affirming medication is an individual choice. For some people, it can be affirming and support their gender identity and expression. Others may feel that hormones are not needed to express their gender identity.

Hormone therapy is not needed to change a legal gender marker nor is it required to request most surgeries.

Is hormone therapy safe?

For most people, hormones can be used safely when taken under the supervision of a healthcare provider. There may be some risks to consider based on family history or individual health conditions. Exercising regularly, maintaining a healthy weight, working on stress management, and reducing/eliminating nicotine use are keys to staying healthy. Health maintenance and screening exams are done based on organs that are present.

Is additional support available?

Yes. Students receiving gender-affirming care who are interested in working with a mental health provider can meet with a Counseling & Psychological Services (CAPS) counselor or SHS Social Worker to determine where to receive care. Students may be referred off-campus to get long-term counseling and support.

STRIDE- Services for Trans, Intersex, and Gender Diverse Experiences is a program at UCSD that employs a holistic approach to gender health and wellness. STRIDE offers case management and care coordination for individuals seeking both medical and non-medical gender-affirming services and resources. The program includes education and safety training on gender health gear (such as tucking wear, binders, and tape), provides appointments for brief gender health counseling and education, and offers referrals to specialized medical care. To contact STRIDE for an appointment, please email stride@health.ucsd.edu with name, PID, and topics to discuss in the appointment.

Students may also wish to contact the UCSD LGBT Resource Center on campus for support and information. The LGBT Resource Center phone number is (858) 822-3493.

How can I access UC SHIP benefits for gender-affirming surgery?

Students who are interested in surgery need a written referral from their SHS provider to see a surgical specialist. Currently, in order to seek coverage through our insurance, letters from one or two mental health professionals are needed depending on the surgery. We have providers that can write these letters for students who do not have their own therapist or psychiatrist that can provide a letter. The procedures and protocols to access surgery largely follow the current WPATH requirements, although flexibility for safety issues and for stress on the individual are being considered. All surgery must be preauthorized by the insurance underwriter, Anthem Blue Cross, before being approved.

Refer to the Cost of Services page for fee schedules.

Links to More Information

Sexual Health at Student Health Services

UC San Diego LGBT Resource Center

Transgender Law Center

Gender-Affirming Care at UC San Diego Health

*Fact sheets used with permission from UC Santa Barbara.

Cost of Services

Clinical Laboratory

Gender-Affirming Care

Radiology (X-ray)

Reproductive Health

Travel Clearance