Cost of Attendance

Undergraduate Cost of Attendance

We know that the cost of earning a degree is a significant financial investment. Understanding the breakdown of costs and how UC San Diego’s comprehensive financial aid program helps students afford costs will allow you to plan ahead for your future. To read more about the expected cost of attendance, select the cohort below that best applies to you.

The annual cost of attendance includes estimates for:

Tuition and fees

Living expenses (i.e. food and housing)

Books, course materials, supplies, and equipment

Miscellaneous personal expenses and

Transportation expenses

Based on your program, additional costs may apply.

To read more about the expected cost of attendance, select the cohort below that best applies to you.

Financial Assistance Information

Students may submit a Special Circumstances – Cost of Attendance Appeal with supporting documentation for expenses such as rent and utilities, transportation, computer purchases, or increased books and supplies. Submission of an appeal does not guarantee approval.

Students may submit a Special Circumstances – Cost of Attendance Appeal with supporting documentation for expenses such as rent and utilities, transportation, computer purchases, or increased books and supplies. Submission of an appeal does not guarantee approval.

Federal Direct Unsubsidized Loans and Federal Direct PLUS Loans require completion of the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) . FAFSAs are available beginning October 1 each year.

Federal Direct Unsubsidized Loans and Federal Direct PLUS Loans require completion of the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) . FAFSAs are available beginning October 1 each year.

Students who are unable to complete the FAFSA or California Dream Act Application, or who are enrolled less than half-time (6 units) , may still be eligible to apply for a Private Education Loan . Private loans are available to both domestic and international students. Students should contact the Financial Aid and Scholarships Office for lenders that accept international applicants or consult ELMSelect and finaid.org for guidance on comparing private loan options.

Students who are unable to complete the FAFSA or California Dream Act Application, or who are enrolled less than half-time (6 units) , may still be eligible to apply for a Private Education Loan . Private loans are available to both domestic and international students. Students should contact the Financial Aid and Scholarships Office for lenders that accept international applicants or consult ELMSelect and finaid.org for guidance on comparing private loan options.

Net Price Calculator

Use this tool to see how much financial aid you may be eligible to receive for in the 2025-26 academic year.

Estimate Your Aid

Cost of Attendance

Undergraduates Tuition Stability Plan

Tuition Stability Plan

Graduate Students

School of Global Policy and Strategy

Other Self-Supporting Programs