Policies & Procedures

Transferring Credit

Transferring Credit

Petitions for transfer credit must first be approved by the student’s graduate program and then submitted to GEPA for approval.

No more than one-half the total units required for a master's degree may be transferred.

Upper-division and graduate coursework completed while in graduate standing (or post-baccalaureate status) at any UC campus , or taken at UC San Diego Division of Extended Studies (via concurrent enrollment / XSDC courses) may be accepted for up to one-half the total master's degree unit requirement, and may be accepted in satisfaction of one of the three quarters of academic residence.

A maximum of eight quarter-units of work completed while in graduate standing (i.e. matriculated into a graduate degree program) at an institution other than a UC campus may be transferred.

Eligible course work may not have been used to fulfill the requirements of any other degree, and must have been completed with a B or better grade and must have been taken prior to enrollment as a graduate student at UC San Diego.

A student must submit proof that the course work to be transferred was not used to satisfy requirements for any other degree program. Degree checks or a letter from the institution from which the courses are being transferred will be required stating the courses were not used toward another degree.

Official transcripts of transfer course work must accompany the petition or be on file at GEPA.

Under no circumstances will transferred work be included in calculating a student's GPA nor will it be listed by course name on the transcript.

Non Discrimination Statement : In accordance with applicable Federal and State law and University policy, the University of California does not discriminate, or grant preferences, on the basis of race, color, national origin, religion, sex, disability, and/or other protected categories. More information about Proposition 209 can be found here . More information about the University of California Anti-Discrimination Policy can be found here.

Policies & Procedures

Academic Standing & Probation

Duplication of Degree

Repetition of Courses

Transferring Credit

Graduate Program Reviews