Living On Campus

Summer Success Program

Summer Success Program

Campus is excited to welcome our Summer Success Programs into Summer Housing.  This year the following Summer Success Programs are:  Summer Bridge, Summer Engineering Institute, SPLASH and SPIS.

Summer Bridge: August 1 - September 6, 2026 Housing Location: Marshall College Apartments

Summer Engineering Institute: August 1 - September 6, 2026 Housing Location: Marshall College Apartments

SPLASH: August 1 - September 6, 2026 Housing Location: Marshall College Apartments

SPIS: August 2 - September 4, 2026 Housing Location: Marshall College Apartments

Summer Success Sample Housing Contract and Payment Schedule

UC San Diego Summer Housing Cost and Payment Schedule 2026 Summer Success Housing

Sample Housing Contract: UC San Diego Single Undergraduate Residential Housing Contract, Traditional & Summer Success Program, Summer 2026

Eligibility & Contract Process

Students eligible for Summer Success Programs are accepted by their program first.  This year our Summer Success Programs are:  Summer Bridge, Summer Engineering Institute, SPLASH and SPIS.

Contract Process

Once we receive information from the programs, we will send via email instructions on where to go to electronically sign the housing contract for the Summer Success Program.  Pay attention to all details and emails coming in regarding your participation so that you have a seamless transition.

Assignment Information

Students are assigned to available space based on where the program is housed.  We take a  number of factors into consideration when making summer assignments.  Room changes are not available unless Housing and Residence Life decide that one is needed. Should there be concerns with roommates or suitemates/apartment-mates, we ask that you work with the RA staff as they are trained and support your residential life environment.

If during the course of your program, you decide to leave, you'll work with the program and Housing to determine the next steps including canceling your contract and moving out.

Living On Campus

Living On Campus

Students participating in Summer Success Programs will be housed at Marshall College - Ridge Walk Living Learning Neighborhood.  Double rooms and limited single rooms are available. All units are shared living environments in common rooms, kitchen, bathrooms, etc. Pots/pans, cooking items, etc. are not provided.

Marshall College offers laundry facilities,mail, and central to campus. Check out our dining facility, Oceanview !

Move-in maps and information will be available in early-July as all Summer Success Programs are taking part in Summer Session II.

A welcome email for move-in will be sent and be available online beginning July 24, 2026 .

Students will be able to receive mail and packages on-campus during their stay.  You will receive your mailing address as part of the MyRoomAssignment page and/or Qwik-Pass for move-in on July 24, 2026.

The Laundry Machines in the Residence Halls and Apartments are NOT coin operated; however, you can pay conveniently with your Laundry account on your campus ID card.

The Laundry account is the prepaid spending account for all undergraduate residents; you add whatever amount you like through the Transact eAccounts Portal and the balance is linked to your campus ID card.  Students can begin adding money on/after the following dates:   Summer Session 2 - after August 3rd..

Laundry machines use High Efficiency (HE) Detergent.

Wash is $1.50 per wash

Dry is $1.25, extra 15 minutes .25

If you have any questions regarding your Laundry account, please contact Triton Card Accounts Services (TCAS) at 858.534.7587 or tritoncardaccounts@ucsd.edu .

Connecting to ResNet

For instructions on how to connect to the internet in your Apartment or Residence Hall please visit the Res Net "Get Connected" Instructional web page .

Housing and Residential Life Policies

Please see the Housing and Residential Life Policies and be familiar with them while you live on campus this summer.

University Centers

As you enjoy your summer with us, check out a few items available to you at the University Centers Shops & Services .

Triton Cash is the University's pre-paid spending account that is linked directly to your campus ID card so check out Triton Cash for more information on what's available this summer.

Your summer dining allows you to dine at all UC San Diego dining facilities that will be open over the summer at Oceanview dining facility at Pangea Residence Halls and Goody's market at Marshall College. Summer dining is a declining balance. When dining at a UC San Diego dining facility you must identify yourself as “summer session” to the cashier when paying for your meal.

Summer dining can only be used at UC San Diego Dining Services locations that are available during your summer stay. Dining cannot be changed, dropped, refunded, or transferred to Triton Cash.

View the Summer Dining website for more information!

Contact Information

Contact information for both locations will be updated in July!

Extended Housing

Please check out the program details here: Extended Housing

Undergrad Housing

Summer Housing acceleRATE Traditional Summer Success Short-Term Transition

Short-Term Transition

Please visit the Summer Session website to view classes offered this summer.