Scholar Services

H-1B Specialty Occupation

Ending Your Status & Departing

Ending Your H-1B Status & Departing the U.S.

H-1B employment authorization is valid until the end date listed on the H-1B approval notice (Form I-797) or, if employment ends earlier, until the last day of employment. Once employment ends, authorization to work in H-1B status ceases immediately.

While employment authorization ends on the H-1B approval notice end date or the last day of employment , individuals may be eligible to remain in the U.S. under a grace period , depending on their circumstances.

Grace Periods for H-1B Scholars

10-Day Grace Period H-1B scholars and their dependents may be granted a 10-day grace period at the end of their H-1B validity period ends. If granted, this period will be reflected on the most recent I-94 . The 10-day grace period is discretionary ; CBP or USCIS determines whether to issue this grace period. Scholars should verify their I-94 record to determine if this period applies. Employment is not permitted during the grace period.

H-1B scholars and their dependents may be granted a 10-day grace period at the end of their H-1B validity period ends. If granted, this period will be reflected on the most recent I-94 . The 10-day grace period is discretionary ; CBP or USCIS determines whether to issue this grace period. Scholars should verify their I-94 record to determine if this period applies. Employment is not permitted during the grace period.

The 10-day grace period is discretionary ; CBP or USCIS determines whether to issue this grace period.

Scholars should verify their I-94 record to determine if this period applies.

Employment is not permitted during the grace period.

60-Day Discretionary Grace Period If H-1B employment ends before the end date on H-1B approval notice, scholars may qualify for a 60-day grace period (or until the H-1B end date, whichever is shorter) to: Secure a new employer to file an H-1B transfer (PORT) Apply for a change of status Depart the United States Key Considerations: The 60-day grace period cannot extend beyond the H-1B petition’s end date . H-1B employment is not permitted during the grace period. The 60-day grace period is granted at the discretion of U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) , meaning that officers reviewing future immigration benefit application/request will determine whether its use was appropriate. For this reason, we encourage scholars to maintain documentation confirming their last day of H-1B employment, as well as documentation explaining the reason the grace period was needed—such as a termination letter, layoff notice, or resignation email—in case USCIS later questions its use.

If H-1B employment ends before the end date on H-1B approval notice, scholars may qualify for a 60-day grace period (or until the H-1B end date, whichever is shorter) to: Secure a new employer to file an H-1B transfer (PORT) Apply for a change of status Depart the United States

Secure a new employer to file an H-1B transfer (PORT)

Apply for a change of status

Depart the United States

Key Considerations: The 60-day grace period cannot extend beyond the H-1B petition’s end date . H-1B employment is not permitted during the grace period. The 60-day grace period is granted at the discretion of U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) , meaning that officers reviewing future immigration benefit application/request will determine whether its use was appropriate. For this reason, we encourage scholars to maintain documentation confirming their last day of H-1B employment, as well as documentation explaining the reason the grace period was needed—such as a termination letter, layoff notice, or resignation email—in case USCIS later questions its use.

The 60-day grace period cannot extend beyond the H-1B petition’s end date .

H-1B employment is not permitted during the grace period.

The 60-day grace period is granted at the discretion of U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) , meaning that officers reviewing future immigration benefit application/request will determine whether its use was appropriate. For this reason, we encourage scholars to maintain documentation confirming their last day of H-1B employment, as well as documentation explaining the reason the grace period was needed—such as a termination letter, layoff notice, or resignation email—in case USCIS later questions its use.

Scholars considering use of the 60-day grace period should consult a Scholar Advisor to confirm eligibility and review available options by visiting icontact.ucsd.edu . Scholars must also notify the ISEO Scholar Services Team upon conclusion of their UC San Diego appointment by completing an Early Departure Request through iServices .

H-1B Specialty Occupation

Maintaining H-1B Status

Extending or Amending Your Stay

Ending Your Status