Outside Agency Scholarships

Outside Agency Scholarships

The outside scholarship information below was compiled by UC San Diego as a service to help students locate outside funding.

The information should not be construed as any type of endorsement or support of any particular organization, individual, points of view, products, or services offered by these outside sites.

UC San Diego does not control or guarantee the accuracy, relevance, timeliness, or completeness of this outside information.

Outside Scholarships Not Administered by UC San Diego

Scholarships Open to Undocumented Students (PDF)

Scholarships Open to Students Regardless of Immigration Status (PDF)

More information:

Have you secured a scholarship from a non-UC San Diego organization? Learn more about where to send your check for processing .

Have you secured a scholarship from a non-UC San Diego organization? Learn more about where to send your check for processing .

Continue your scholarships search with these additional scholarship resources .

Continue your scholarships search with these additional scholarship resources .

Check back often — the Financial Aid and Scholarships Office continually updates the listings above.

Check back often — the Financial Aid and Scholarships Office continually updates the listings above.

If you encounter an issue with a hyperlink, contact us .

If you encounter an issue with a hyperlink, contact us .

Private and Foundation Scholarships

Noncitizen students may be eligible to apply for many private scholarships, depending on the eligibility requirements set forth in the application, and any donor restrictions or donor intent.

Private scholarships may be offered by nonprofit organizations, individuals, government agencies, foundations (including university foundations), and a number of other sources. Find more information on scholarships at the following sites:

collegeboard.org

unitedwedream.org

scholarships.com

immigrantsrising.org

goldendoorscholars.org

mydocumentedlife.org

learnmore.scholarsapply.org/dreamaward

hsf.net/scholarship

latinocollegedollars.org

lulac.org/programs/education/scholarships

esperanzafund.org

dreamersroadmap.org

Another good resource is this website from the Office of Federal Student Aid: Undocumented Students and Financial Aid .

In addition, contact organizations in your community that support Latino students — they will often have a prepared list to share with you. For example, in Indianapolis, scholarship lists are available through La Plaza , Central Indiana Community Foundation , Indiana Latino Scholarship Fund , and other local community organizations.

Universities and university foundations may also have lists of unrestricted funds that are not limited by donor intent and may be available to DACA students. Students should read scholarship eligibility requirements carefully to ensure they qualify even without lawful status.

Entering First-Year Students

Entering Transfer Students

Chancellor's Scholarships for Entering First-Year

Regents Scholarships for Entering Freshmen

Continuing Undergraduate Students

Receiving Scholarship Funds from Non-UC San Diego Organizations

Middle Class Scholarship

Outside Agency Scholarships