Work Study Opportunities

Work-study is subsidized employment for eligible undergraduates. Recipients earn this self-help financial aid, so it doesn't need to be repaid. The state or federal government, the campus hiring department, and the work-study program share the cost of a work-study recipient’s earnings.

Work-study can reduce your need for student loans, leave you with less debt, and allow you to explore careers while you gain valuable work experience. Learn more about the benefits of working part-time .

Please be aware that work-study is limited based on federal and institutional funding for the academic year. Visit the Student Employment Office's website to read more about using your work-study.

How to Apply for Work-Study

File your annual Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) (or if eligible under DACA and file your California Dream Act Application ) by the annual financial aid application priority deadline to be considered for work-study and the best types of other financial aid awards.

Submit documents requested by the Financial Aid and Scholarships Office by the annual document submission deadline.

Check for work-study awards on your award offer online using the Financial Aid tool . For interested DACA-eligible students, please contact Financial Aid and Scholarships directly.

After Accepting Work-Study

Browse work-study job listings online at Handshake or visit the Career Center for assistance.

Consider a job in community service or one related to your course of study.

If you already have a part-time campus job, ask your employer if you can keep it as a work-study employee.

Ask the Career Center to help you create a new work-study job with an on-campus department or off-campus nonprofit group.

After You're Hired

Work-study awards typically range from $600 to $2,800, depending on your job title and number of work hours.

You can earn up to the amount in your award offer. After that, ask your employer to consider using non-work-study funds so you can keep your job.

You can either receive paper checks every other week from your employer or have your paychecks deposited directly into your personal bank account.

Work-study awards are not applied directly to your UC San Diego student account. You can use your earnings to pay for your fees, books, rent, transportation, and other educational expenses.

Exclude your work-study income from your future FAFSA or CA Dream Act Application.

Study Abroad & Exchange Programs

Military Affiliated Students

Other Funding Sources