Student Services

Returning to UC San Diego

Transfer Back to UC San Diego

Transferring a SEVIS Record back to UC San Diego

This information is for students currently in F-1 or J-1 status who already began their program at UC San Diego, transferred their SEVIS record to another institution, and now would like to transfer their SEVIS record back to UC San Diego to continue their program.

An F-1 student is eligible to transfer to UC San Diego if they have been readmitted and are in valid F-1 status at the time of transfer. Undergraduates Returning to UC San Diego Graduates Returning to UC San Diego

Undergraduates Returning to UC San Diego

Graduates Returning to UC San Diego

There can be no more than 5 months (152 days) between the last date of attendance at your previous school and the start of classes in the returning term at UC San Diego.

Students must request a transfer before their 60-day grace period ends (60 days after the program completion date).

J-1 students who wish to transfer from their current program sponsor to UC San Diego must consult with the International Student Advisors at both schools. Contact ISEO here .

Students must request a transfer at least 10 business days before their DS-2019 program end date. Students CANNOT transfer during their 30-day grace period.

Students CANNOT transfer during their 30-day grace period.

Students must be matriculating to UC San Diego within the same exchange visitor status (e.g., J-1 student to J-1 student; J-1 non-degree to J-1 non degree)

Students must begin studies at UC San Diego within thirty (30) days of their transfer date

Students who have applied to the U.S. Department of State for a waiver of the 2-year home residency requirement and have been approved are NOT eligible to transfer.

Request a SEVIS Transfer from Current School

When you are ready to transfer from your current school to UC San Diego, please ask an international student advisor at your current school to transfer your SEVIS record to UC San Diego, and give them the following information:

F-1 students: Our SEVIS school code is SND214F00088000 . Your advisor can find us in SEVIS by entering “*University of California*” in the Search box. Our school name is “University of California” and our campus name is “University of California, San Diego.”

J-1 students: Our SEVIS program number is P-1-02849 . Our school name is "University of California, San Diego."

Verification Letter of Eligibility to Return to UC San Diego:

If your current school requires you to submit proof of your eligibility to return to UC San Diego in order to transfer your SEVIS record back to UC San Diego, then submit one of the following items to your current school.

If you have been absent from UC San Diego for more than 1 academic quarter:

You are required to apply for readmission. When your request is approved, submit your approval notification to your current school. Undergraduates Returning to UC San Diego Graduates Returning to UC San Diego

Undergraduates Returning to UC San Diego

Graduates Returning to UC San Diego

If you have been absent from UC San Diego for 1 academic quarter:

Formal readmission is not required, so you will not have any readmission approval notification to submit to your current school. Submit a Other Letter Request in iServices to receive a transfer support letter from ISEO : Find the Verification and Support Services category in the left menu. Select the Letter Request . Choose the Other Letter option. Describe what information you need in the letter in the Comment section of the request. In this scenario, you will not need to upload any additional document to the request. ISEO has an average processing time of 10 business days . You will be notified via email when your request is complete.

Submit a Other Letter Request in iServices to receive a transfer support letter from ISEO : Find the Verification and Support Services category in the left menu. Select the Letter Request . Choose the Other Letter option. Describe what information you need in the letter in the Comment section of the request. In this scenario, you will not need to upload any additional document to the request. ISEO has an average processing time of 10 business days . You will be notified via email when your request is complete.

Submit a Other Letter Request in iServices to receive a transfer support letter from ISEO :

Find the Verification and Support Services category in the left menu. Select the Letter Request . Choose the Other Letter option.

Select the Letter Request .

Choose the Other Letter option.

Describe what information you need in the letter in the Comment section of the request.

In this scenario, you will not need to upload any additional document to the request.

ISEO has an average processing time of 10 business days . You will be notified via email when your request is complete.

If you are returning after being academically disqualified or suspended due to academic integrity or other issues, submit a " Letter Request " in iServices . Find the Verification and Support Services category in the left menu. Select the Letter Request . Choose the Other Letter option. Describe what information you need in the letter in the Comment section of the request. Upload one of the following items: A copy of a confirmation email or Virtual Advising Center (VAC) message. Letter from your academic advising office (or Academic Integrity Office ) confirming your eligibility to return to UC San Diego in the following academic term. A copy of your TritonLink enrollment page showing class enrollment in your return term. ISEO has an average processing time of 10 business days . You will be notified via email when your request is complete.

Find the Verification and Support Services category in the left menu. Select the Letter Request . Choose the Other Letter option.

Select the Letter Request .

Choose the Other Letter option.

Describe what information you need in the letter in the Comment section of the request.

Upload one of the following items: A copy of a confirmation email or Virtual Advising Center (VAC) message. Letter from your academic advising office (or Academic Integrity Office ) confirming your eligibility to return to UC San Diego in the following academic term. A copy of your TritonLink enrollment page showing class enrollment in your return term.

A copy of a confirmation email or Virtual Advising Center (VAC) message.

Letter from your academic advising office (or Academic Integrity Office ) confirming your eligibility to return to UC San Diego in the following academic term.

A copy of your TritonLink enrollment page showing class enrollment in your return term.

ISEO has an average processing time of 10 business days . You will be notified via email when your request is complete.

Request a New Transfer-in I-20/DS-2019 from ISEO

Submit a Transfer-In I-20 for Returning Students i n iServices :

Find the Students Returning to UC San Diego category in the left menu. Select the I-20 Request for Returning F-1 Students . Choose the Transfer-In I-20 for Returning Students option.

Select the I-20 Request for Returning F-1 Students .

Choose the Transfer-In I-20 for Returning Students option.

Upload PDF copies of: Fi nancial documents showing funding for one academic year (9 months). I-20 from your previous institution. Most recent I-94 . Passport biographical page. If you were absent from UC San Diego for two quarters or more , upload one of the following : UCSD readmission notification; Email from academic department; WebReg page showing enrollment.

Fi nancial documents showing funding for one academic year (9 months).

I-20 from your previous institution.

Most recent I-94 .

Passport biographical page.

If you were absent from UC San Diego for two quarters or more , upload one of the following : UCSD readmission notification; Email from academic department; WebReg page showing enrollment.

Your new transfer-in I-20 will be issued within 10 business days from when your current institution has released your SEVIS record to UC San Diego. Y ou will be notified via email when your request is complete.

Submit a Transfer-In DS-2019 for Returning Students i n iServices :

Find the Students Returning to UC San Diego category in the left menu. Select the DS-2019 Request for Returning J-1 Students . Choose the Transfer-In DS-2019 for Returning Students option.

Select the DS-2019 Request for Returning J-1 Students .

Choose the Transfer-In DS-2019 for Returning Students option.

Upload PDF copies of: Fi nancial documents showing funding for the entire duration of your studies. DS-2019 from your previous institution. Most recent I-94 . Passport biographical page. If you were absent from UC San Diego for two quarters or more , upload one of the following : UCSD readmission notification; Email from academic department; WebReg page showing enrollment.

Fi nancial documents showing funding for the entire duration of your studies.

DS-2019 from your previous institution.

Most recent I-94 .

Passport biographical page.

If you were absent from UC San Diego for two quarters or more , upload one of the following : UCSD readmission notification; Email from academic department; WebReg page showing enrollment.

Your new transfer-in DS-2019 will be issued within 10 business days from when your current institution has released your SEVIS record to UC San Diego. You will be notified via email when your request is complete.

Returning to UC San Diego

Check-In for SEVIS Activation:

In order for international students to comply with Student and Exchange Visitor Program (SEVP) regulations, ISEO requires students who have transferred their SEVIS record back to UC San Diego to submit the Check-In for SEVIS Activation request in iServices.

Students must submit this form within 10 days of resuming study at UC San Diego.

Students will only need to do this once after transferring back to UC San Diego.

Students Returning to UC San Diego for Summer Session:

Option 1: Transfer-in I-20 for SEVIS record transfer students If you are transferring your SEVIS record to UC San Diego from another institution within the U.S., and would like to study at UC San Diego during the Summer Session, incidental study between programs is allowed according to USCIS regulations. In order to be eligible to study during the summer session (part-time or full-time) with an I-20 that has a Fall quarter start date, you must fulfill the following requirements: Appropriately transfer your SEVIS record to UCSD within the 60-day period from your last school’s program end date. The quarter start date of the Fall quarter must be within 5 months (152 days) of your last date of enrollment at your previous institution. If you meet these conditions, you will not need a I-20 with a summer start date to study in the Summer Session.

If you are transferring your SEVIS record to UC San Diego from another institution within the U.S., and would like to study at UC San Diego during the Summer Session, incidental study between programs is allowed according to USCIS regulations.

In order to be eligible to study during the summer session (part-time or full-time) with an I-20 that has a Fall quarter start date, you must fulfill the following requirements: Appropriately transfer your SEVIS record to UCSD within the 60-day period from your last school’s program end date. The quarter start date of the Fall quarter must be within 5 months (152 days) of your last date of enrollment at your previous institution. If you meet these conditions, you will not need a I-20 with a summer start date to study in the Summer Session.

Appropriately transfer your SEVIS record to UCSD within the 60-day period from your last school’s program end date.

The quarter start date of the Fall quarter must be within 5 months (152 days) of your last date of enrollment at your previous institution.

If you meet these conditions, you will not need a I-20 with a summer start date to study in the Summer Session.

Option 2: Transfer-in I-20 issued with a Summer Session program start date If you are issued an I-20 with a Summer Session start date, you are required to enroll in the following to maintain status: If your I-20 has been issued with a Summer Session 1 start date, you must remain enrolled in a minimum of 6 units in SS1 and 6 units in SS2. If your I-20 has been issued with a Summer Session 2 start date, you must remain enrolled in a minimum of 6 units in SS2. If your I-20 has been issued with a Summer Session 3 start date, you must remain enrolled in a minimum of 6 units for SS3. In order to be eligible for an authorized reduced course load , meet with an international student advisor prior to dropping below full-time. During the regular academic year, full-time enrollment is 12 units per term.

If you are issued an I-20 with a Summer Session start date, you are required to enroll in the following to maintain status: If your I-20 has been issued with a Summer Session 1 start date, you must remain enrolled in a minimum of 6 units in SS1 and 6 units in SS2. If your I-20 has been issued with a Summer Session 2 start date, you must remain enrolled in a minimum of 6 units in SS2. If your I-20 has been issued with a Summer Session 3 start date, you must remain enrolled in a minimum of 6 units for SS3.

If your I-20 has been issued with a Summer Session 1 start date, you must remain enrolled in a minimum of 6 units in SS1 and 6 units in SS2.

If your I-20 has been issued with a Summer Session 2 start date, you must remain enrolled in a minimum of 6 units in SS2.

If your I-20 has been issued with a Summer Session 3 start date, you must remain enrolled in a minimum of 6 units for SS3.

In order to be eligible for an authorized reduced course load , meet with an international student advisor prior to dropping below full-time. During the regular academic year, full-time enrollment is 12 units per term.

You must begin studies at UC San Diego within thirty (30) days of your transfer date. You must remain enrolled full time (minimum 6 units) for the duration of that term (Summer Session I, II, or Special Summer Session).

F-1 students: If you have valid visa stamp, contact your local U.S. embassy or consulate to confirm if you can use the old visa with your new I-20 from UC San Diego. If you do not have a valid visa, you need to apply for a new F-1 visa .

J-1 students: If you plan to re-enter the U.S. following the transfer, you must apply for a new J-1 visa .

Note: If you remain in the U.S. between transfer institutions and do not leave the country, a new F-1/J-1 visa stamp is not required. A valid visa is only required to enter the U.S.

Returning to UC San Diego

Returning from Gap Quarter(s)

Transfer Back to UC San Diego