MyTritonLink & Other Student Tools

Student Tools Help & Resources

How to Use the Schedule of Classes

How to Use the Schedule of Classes

Learn how to use the Schedule of Classes tool to plan your class schedule before your enrollment appointment time.

Review enrollment info before you search the Schedule of Classes; print a schedule worksheet

Review important details about enrollment:

Undergraduates: What to Do Before Enrolling in Classes Enrollment Checklist

What to Do Before Enrolling in Classes

Enrollment Checklist

Graduates: Enrollment Checklist

Enrollment Checklist

Undergraduate and graduate students: Use WebReg to help plan your schedule.

Search the Schedule of Classes to determine classes you'll take next quarter

Go to the Schedule of Classes . Make sure you have the correct academic quarter/ session selected.

You'll see 5 different ways to search for classes:

Subject (subject matter)

Code (course code)

Professor or title (course title)

Review your search results and select your classes

Your search results will show you:

A list of your search criteria

Classes that meet your search criteria

Use this information to decide which class you want to take:

Class meeting time(s) and day(s)

Restrictions and prerequisites

Number of available seats

Note: You may want to review undergrad course evaluations and CAPE evaluations to see how classes and instructors were rated by other students (CAPE was used for instructor evaluations through Summer 2023).

Note: Remember the Section ID for each class you want to take; you'll need it to register for the class.

After you've selected your classes, get ready to use WebReg online registration

Know when your appointment time begins. Appointments are viewable beginning Monday of Week 5 of the current quarter. Check the MyTritonLink for your enrollment appointment start times.

Have the Section ID ready for each course you want to take. When you enter the section ID into WebReg, it will take you directly to WebReg's listing for that class.

Registrar's Office , (858) 534-3150