Student Services

Changes to Enrollment

Academic Disqualification and Suspension

Academic Disqualification and Suspension

Students that have been academically disqualified or suspended due to a student conduct violation may not be eligible to continue enrollment at UC San Diego.

It is important that you carefully review communication from your College (undergraduate), GEPA (graduate students) or the Office of Student Conduct regarding your dismissal and any actions you must take in order to be eligible to return to UC San Diego. If you are unable to continue enrollment, you will need to take one of the following actions regarding your F-1 or J-1 visa status.

Option 1: Depart the U.S.

You may choose to depart the U.S. for the duration of your academic disqualification/suspension. Your SEVIS record will be terminated on or after the date of departure and your Form I-20 or Form DS-2019 will no longer be valid for use. Review the Termination of F/J Visa Status page for additional information. After your SEVIS record is terminated, you are no longer eligible for the benefits of your visa status, including employment and travel/re-entry. Any employment authorization will no longer be valid. You may not use the terminated I-20 or DS-2019 for work authorization or travel and reentry into the U.S. Once you are dismissed, do not travel and attempt to reenter the U.S. with the UC San Diego I-20 or DS-2019.

F-1 students: Consider that a new I-20 will have a new SEVIS ID. In order to be eligible for CPT or OPT employment authorization, you will need to complete at least one academic year of full-time enrollment on that new SEVIS record.

Actions and Timeline:

Submit the Ending F-1 or J-1 Visa Status Request via i Serv i ces . Visit the Withdrawal from UC San Diego page for submission instructions.

Your departure date must be before whichever of the following dates is the latest :

15 days after the start date of instruction of the suspension/disqualification term, or

15 days after the date of appeal denial (if you are provided an option to appeal), or

15 days after your last date of enrollment.

Option 2: Transfer Your SEVIS Record to Another School

You may transfer your SEVIS record to a school that you are admitted to and that accepts F-1 or J-1 students. You can search for schools to transfer to on the following Study in the States website by city, education type (higher ed or language training) , and visa type: Study in the States - School Search

Academically Disqualified Undergraduate Students:

In order to return to UC San Diego after disqualification , you are not required to complete coursework elsewhere, but you may choose to do so in order to make degree progress. If you have questions about transferable courses in your time away, check with your college academic advisors.

If you want to remain in the United States and maintain your visa status, you will want to carefully consider coursework at local community colleges or through UC San Diego Extension. In most cases, UC San Diego Extension will allow students to take classes at the English Language Institute (ELI) for one quarter and concurrently enroll at UC San Diego during the second quarter, either through Extension’s University and Professional Studies Program (international concurrent enrollment) or UC San Diego Summer Session (if appropriate). For questions about the ELI, email eliadvisor@ucsd.edu . If you have questions about transferable courses in your time away, check with your college academic advisors.

Actions and Timeline:

J-1 students: Contact an International Student Advisor to discuss SEVIS transfer eligibility.

F-1 students: Submit the F-1 SEVIS Transfer Out Request in i Serv i ces . Visit the SEVIS Transfer page for submission instructions.

The SEVIS transfer date must be before whichever of the following dates is the latest : 15 days after the start date of instruction of the suspension/disqualification term, or 15 days after the date of appeal denial (if you are provided an option to appeal), or 15 days after your last date of enrollment.

15 days after the start date of instruction of the suspension/disqualification term, or

15 days after the date of appeal denial (if you are provided an option to appeal), or

15 days after your last date of enrollment.

You may verify the date with an International Student Advisor .

After your record has been transferred, you must start full time enrollment at the other school at the next earliest enrollment start date. This date must be within 5 months of your last date of enrollment at UC San Diego.

Changes to Enrollment

Academic Major Change

Reduced Course Loads (RCLs)

Program Extension

Degree Level Change

Enrollment Outside UC San Diego

Academic Disqualification and Suspension

Visa Status Violations

Regaining Status