Student Services

Working in the U.S.

F-1 On-Campus Employment

F-1 On-Campus Employment

In general, all F-1 students are eligible for on-campus employment during the period of their academic program of study. Because the employment is "incident to status," authorization from the International Services and Engagement Office (ISEO) or the U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS) is not required .

Definition of On-Campus Employment

Work on the school premises, employed by the I-20 issuing institution (such as work for a UC San Diego department or college dining hall).

Work on the school premises, employed by on-campus commercial firms (such as work at one of the restaurants in Price Center) which provides direct student service (such as food).

Work done at an off-campus location which is educationally affiliated with UC San Diego (for graduate students only ).

You must be a current F-1 student, pursuing a full course of study Please note that employment extending past the program end date of your current I-20 cannot be considered on-campus employment and requires post-completion Optional Practical Training (OPT) employment authorization.

Please note that employment extending past the program end date of your current I-20 cannot be considered on-campus employment and requires post-completion Optional Practical Training (OPT) employment authorization.

Your on-campus employment does not have to be related to your course of study

Your on-campus employment is limited to 20 hours per week (or 50% time) while school is in session. It can be full-time during official school breaks and the vacation term. Graduate students may refer to GEPA's Policy for On-Campus Employment during Summer/Quarter Breaks.

Elibility on Campus for Certain Scenarios

On-Campus Employment for continuing students during summers/quarter breaks: F-1 students may work on-campus during breaks and vacations (summer and quarter breaks) as long as they are planning to enroll in the next available quarter.

On-Campus Employment after completing all course requirements/graduating: A student who has completed all degree requirements may NOT continue working on-campus for UC San Diego unless they have been approved for and have received an Employment Authorization Document with a current start date for post-completion OPT.

On-Campus Employment before starting your degree program (on a New SEVIS ID Number): A student for whom an Initial Attendance Form I-20 has been processed to begin a new program at UC San Diego can begin working at the school during the school break before the new program begins as soon as they have physically entered the U.S., no earlier than 30 days before their program start date as listed on their Form I-20.

On-Campus Employment before starting your degree program (on a SEVIS ID Number you transferred in from a previous school): A student for whom a transfer-pending Form I-20 has been processed to begin a new program at UC San Diego can begin working at the school during the school break before the new program begins as soon as they obtain the Transfer Pending Form I-20 from ISEO.

On-Campus Employment between academic levels at the same school: A student for whom a change of level Form I-20 has been processed to move levels within UC San Diego can continue working at the school during the school break following completion of the first program and the beginning of the next as soon as they obtain the Change of Level Form I-20 from ISEO.

UC San Diego F-1 students who are enrolled at UC San Diego and are eligible for on-campus employment may work remotely but are NOT permitted to be employed if physically located outside of the U.S.

Students located outside of the U.S. during their on-campus employment with UC San Diego should talk to their hiring department regarding requirements to accept or engage in on-campus employment while abroad. Generally, UC San Diego does NOT permit remote work for students who are physically located outside of the U.S.

IMPORTANT NOTE FOR GRADUATE STUDENTS IN INSTRUCTIONAL OR INSTRUCTIONAL SUPPORT ROLES: While students in instructional roles (e.g., a TA) may be permitted to serve in this type of role in hybrid capacities (still within the U.S.), they may not do so internationally . Please discuss your plans with your graduate coordinator if you have an instructional role but plan to work internationally.

Social Security Number (SSN):

If you do not have a Social Security Number (SSN), then you will need to apply for one. See our Social Security Number page for more information on how to get an SSN.

Graduate Students: On-Campus Employment at Off-Campus Location

If your on-campus employment takes place at an off-campus location which is educationally affiliated with UC San Diego ( for graduate students only ), you must submit a Letter Request for authorization. You will need to provide a letter from the employing entity and the UC San Diego faculty advisor explaining the nature of the employment and how the entity is educationally affiliated with UC San Diego.

Submit a F-1 Letter Request in iServices :

Find the Working in the U.S. category in the left menu. Select the F-1 Letter Request - On-Campus Employment at Off-Campus Location.

Select the F-1 Letter Request - On-Campus Employment at Off-Campus Location.

Prepare a PDF copy of a letter from the employing entity and the UC San Diego faculty advisor.

You will receive a confirmation email when your request has been successfully submitted.

ISEO has an average processing time of 10 business days . You will be notified via email when your request is complete.

Working in the U.S.

How to Find Employers

J-1 On-Campus Work

J-1 Academic Training (AT)

J-1 Volunteering and Unpaid Internships

F-1 On-Campus Work

F-1 Off-Campus Work (CPT)

F-1 Optional Practical Training (OPT)

F-1 Volunteering and Unpaid Internships

F-1 Economic Hardship

F-1 International Organizations