Pregnancy Testing

Pregnancy Testing

Pregnancy testing is available at UC San Diego Student Health Services (SHS) at no cost for registered students. Anyone with a missed a period, an instance of unprotected intercourse, or a birth control method failure or anyone experiencing symptoms of pregnancy should consider having a pregnancy test.

Early signs of pregnancy include a missed menstrual period, breast tenderness or enlargement, fatigue, nausea, or weight gain. It is important to consider that pregnancy isn’t the only reason for missing a period. Stress, anxiety, a change in birth control methods, changes in eating or exercise habits, and even travel can affect the menstrual cycle.

SHS tests for pregnancy using urine testing which detects the presence of HCG (human chorionic gonadotropin), a hormone produced by the body during pregnancy. The test is sensitive 10 days after conception (2 weeks from the last episode of intercourse) when the hormone levels are greater. A test done prior to this time may be falsely negative, as the levels of HCG are not high enough to be detected in the urine.

Pregnancy testing can be self-requested through the lab oratory at SHS. A laboratory appointment is required and can be made using MyStudentChart . Testing can also be done with a nurse by calling SHS at (858) 534-3300 for an appointment. All pregnancy testing results are processed by the Nurses’ Clinic team for follow-up and support. All visit details, test results, and counseling are completely confidential, and no information can be released without written permission from the patient.

If the pregnancy test is negative and a menstrual cycle does not occur after 2 weeks, return to the clinic for another test. If the second test is negative, patients should make an appointment for evaluation with one of the SHS providers.

Patients who are not pregnant and need contraception, or who want information about contraception options, should also schedule an appointment. Sexual health information sessions are available for anyone interested in learning more about the reproductive system, contraception, and sexually transmitted infections (STIs). Anyone who has never had contraception counseling and/or a gynecological exam should review the Sexual Health Info PowerPoint .

If the pregnancy test is positive, counseling and referral information for prenatal care, adoption, and abortion is available at SHS.

Advance Directives

Alcohol and Other Drugs

Breast & Testicular Health

Conjunctivitis (Pink Eye)

Eating Disorders

Emergency Contraception

Gastroesophageal Reflux Disease (GERD)

Gynecologic Cancers (PDF)

Hepatitis A, B and C

Human Papillomavirus (HPV)

Medication Abortion

Methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA)

Molluscum Contagiosum

Painful Periods (Dysmenorrhea)

Pelvic Inflammatory Disease (PID)

Physical Activity

Plant Dermatitis

Polycystic Ovary Syndrome (PCOS)

Pregnancy Testing

Temporomandibular Joint Disorders (TMJ)

Urinary Tract Infections (UTIs)

Vaginal Infections