Training and Workshops

Student Services

International Student Services Training and Workshops

This page provides information for UC San Diego Campus Partners that advise international students. If you are an international student and would like to learn more about your visa status, please visit our Student Services page .

Current International Student Advising

It is important that F-1 and J-1 students work with their colleges and/or departments to ensure they are correctly maintaining their status in the United States. Failure to do so could have a negative impact on their status.

Maintaining Visa Status Checklist

Enrolling Below 12 Units

Change of Degree Level

Program Extensions

Employment Authorization

Newly Admitted International Student Advising

Fall admit international students can generally begin requesting their Form I-20 (F-1 visa) or Form DS-2019 (J-1 visa) documents from ISEO in early March. Winter admit international students can generally begin requesting these documents in early November.

Please see our F-1 or J-1 Visa Eligibility chart for more information regarding these two visa types.

Summer Start Programs:

In order to issue our newly admitted international students their immigration documents, ISEO is required to verify program start information from every program across campus. Departments that require their students to attend mandatory, in-person activities prior to the end of Summer Session II may be eligible to have their international students issued a “Summer Start” Form I-20 or DS-2019, which will allow students to enter the US in time for their program’s summer start. If your department has a program that will require in-person full-time participation prior to the official start of fall classes, please notify ISEO by reporting your program start information via the button below.

Your summer start program must meet the requirements outlined by one of the options below in order for your incoming international students to be issued an earlier start date on their Form I-20 or DS-2019:

OPTION 1: Full Time Study – 18 clock hours per week leading to Fall full-time matriculation. If the program meets the below requirements for full-time study, ISEO can issue the Form I-20/DS-2019 with the program’s summer start date. Documentation from the department with the following information is required to be submitted to ISEO:

Description of the early arrival program

Start/End Dates of Program

Date student is required to report on campus (may include orientation/on-boarding to begin research activities)

Confirmation student will be engaged in a minimum of 18 clock hours per week of classroom/lab hours or other associated activities during the duration of program

Explanation of how activities during the summer are a required component of program

Explanation of how activities during the summer are required in order to make normal progress towards completion of degree or program

Confirmation that classroom hours, research, or other components of the program are required to be conducted within the U.S.

Confirmation that the student is required to matriculate in the upcoming fall quarter.

Once a summer start program is approved by ISEO to be offered to F-1 or J-1 newly admitted students, ISEO will reach out to departments to collect:

OPTION 2: Full Time Study – Full-time enrollment/registration in Summer Session If the program meets the below requirements of enrollment in Summer Session, ISEO can issue the Form I-20/DS-2019 with the requested summer session start date. The department must verify that the student will show full-time enrollment on their Academic History in accordance with the following:

When Summer Session I is the starting term: Student must be enrolled full-time for both Summer Session I and Summer Session II. Full-time enrollment is considered 6 units for SS1 AND 6 units for SSII.

When Summer Session II is the starting term: Student must be enrolled in 6 units for SSII.

When Summer Session III (Special Summer Session) is the starting term: Student must be enrolled in 6 units for SSIII.

Student Instructions - Request Form I-20 or Form DS-2019:

Visa Processing: Delays and Support Documents

Every international student who applies for an F-1 or J-1 visa at a U.S. Consulate or Embassy in their home country must present supporting documentation at the visa interview. These document requirements are outlined at the Applying for U.S. Visa webpage.

In some cases, a consular officer may determine that a student's eligibility for a visa could not be established during their visa interview, and will place the student's visa application in an extended review process known as administrative processing. Administrative processing is also called a "visa refusal" under section 221(g) of the U.S. Immigration and Nationality Act. Administrative processing/visa refusal means that the student's visa application is under review. Administrative processing will eventually result in a decision to either approve or deny the visa. The duration of the administrative processing will vary based on the individual circumstances of each case. It may take anywhere from several weeks to several months for the consulate to complete their review of the student's visa application. For more information on administrative processing, please review the U.S. Department of State website: Administrative Processing Information .

When we become aware of students that are undergoing Administrative Processing, we will make sure departments are aware of the visa delay. Our office then works with the student and department in case a support letter is needed, or to help them navigate making inquiries to the US consulate per the below:

In general, students can check the status of their visa application at the Consular Electronic Application Center . In those cases where the visa delay impacts the student’s arrival for the start of the fall term, we then work with the department and student to determine if the student is eligible to defer their admissions/return and update the I-20 accordingly.

Departmental Support Documents:

As part of the review process, international students applying for F-1 or J-1 visas may be asked to submit additional supporting documentation from their academic department at UC San Diego. This request usually includes, but is not limited to, the following:

Copy of departmental description of the degree program

Support letter (on letterhead) from an academic advisor/department describing: the student’s program of study, goals of the student’s research and any practical applications, sources and amounts of any U.S. government money to be used to support that research; and description of any export-controlled technology and/or information that will be shared with the applicant.

CV/resume of the student’s faculty advisor*

*If the student does not have a faculty advisor, please indicate this in the department support letter.

ISEO appreciates your assistance in supporting our international students so that they can begin their programs of study successfully at UC San Diego. If you have any questions regarding these requirements or this updated process, please do not hesitate to contact ISEO at icontact.ucsd.edu .

Information compiled from SUNY College of Environmental Science and Forestry and Carnegie Mellon University .

Sponsored Students

ISEO is proud to provide services for sponsored students and their sponsors. A sponsored student is a student whose tuition and fees are paid directly to UC San Diego by an outside private or public agency, such as a corporation, government, educational institution or embassy.

Integral to sponsored student success, participation in campus and community activities allows sponsored students to share their unique perspectives and diverse cultural heritages. Sponsored students also enrich our vibrant campus by creating educational exchanges with their fellow Tritons.

Learn more about the specialized services ISEO provides to its sponsored students by visiting our Sponsored Student Services page.

Intercultural Communication

Tips for Effective Intercultural Communication with Culturally-Diverse Students

UC Learning Workshops How to Say My Name? Chinese Pronunciation 101 Intercultural Communication Training (Beginner) Intercultural Communication Training (Intermediate) Intercultural Communication Training (Advanced)

How to Say My Name? Chinese Pronunciation 101

Intercultural Communication Training (Beginner)

Intercultural Communication Training (Intermediate)

Intercultural Communication Training (Advanced)

UAAC Meeting Guest Presentation: F-1 Practical Training, CPT and OPT | February 7, 2023

Training and Workshops

Student Services

Scholar Services