Test and Scores Questions

Test and Scores Questions

How can I submit my test scores?

Contact Education Testing Services (ETS) and request that your scores be sent to UC San Diego electronically at institution code 4836 . Further information about the GRE and TOEFL, is available on the ETS website, http://www.ets.org/ .

Once the electronic scores are received, they will upload to your application automatically as long as the information received from ETS matches the information on your application.

If you have sent your official scores to institution code 4836, they will be reviewed with your application. However, they may not post to your application until you are offered admission.  As long as you have self-reported the scores in your application this is not a problem and will not affect the application review.

Can verified test scores from a previous application be deleted from my record?

What is the UC San Diego institution code for GRE/TOEFL?

Use code 4836 to send your scores to UC San Diego.

I am only able to take the TOEFL iBT Home Edition or IELTS Indicator. Does UC San Diego accept these?

What is the department code for the GRE?

The UC San Diego institution code, 4836 , will suffice.  Once received , the scores upload to your application(s) for departments to access.  There is no need to provide the department code(s) for ETS.

Does UC San Diego take the best GRE scores, or does it average them?

Official scores are your most recent scores. Many, but not all graduate departments use your best scores when evaluating your application.

Can I submit my application without my GRE and/or TOEFL scores?

This depends on the department that you are applying to. Some departments will alIow applicants to submit the application without test scores, but keep in mind that the application may not be reviewed until they are received.

For departments that require scores, the application cannot be submitted unless the self-reported scores fields are completed. You will need to enter the date you will take/took your test(s) and enter zeroes in the score and registration fields.

Request ETS to send your official scores to the institution code 4836 . Once the scores have been received by our institution, they will automatically load into your application.

Check for specific department GRE and TOEFL requirements and contact information through our Programs page.

I want to apply for the upcoming school year. When I applied last year, I requested ETS to send my official GRE/TOEFL scores to UC San Diego. Do I need to resubmit my official scores or are they still on file?

Your official GRE and TOEFL scores will be on file as long as they have not expired by the date you submit your new application. You will still need to self-report your scores in your application.

GRE scores are valid for 5 years and TOEFL scores are valid for 2 years from the dates the tests were taken.  If scores have expired you will be required to take the test/s again and submit the new scores.

My GRE and/or TOEFL score(s) is set to expire before the deadline. Will I need to retake the exams or will my scores still be valid?

You can request that ETS send the electronic scores to us before they expire. ETS will not send outdated test results. If we receive them from ETS, we will consider them valid.

IELTS scores must be mailed from the British Council, as long as we receive them before they expire, they will be considered valid.

What is the minimum accepted TOEFL score?

The minimum acceptable score for TOEFL iBT is 85 . The minimum acceptable score for TOEFL Paper-delivered test is 64 . Please check with your department for specific requirements.

Does UC San Diego accept MyBest scores for TOEFL?

Can applicants submit Duolingo English Test (DET) scores to meet the English language proficiency requirement?

Yes. Beginning with the Fall 2026 admissions cycle, UC San Diego will accept the Duolingo English Test (DET) as one of the approved options to meet our English language proficiency requirement for graduate admission.

Minimum Total Score: 120 (out of 160)

Score Validity: Scores are valid for two years from the exam date

How can I submit my Duolingo English Test (DET) scores?

To send your Duolingo English Test scores to UC San Diego Graduate Admissions, follow these steps:

Log in at englishtest.duolingo.com

Go to "My Tests" and click "Share Score" on your certified result

Select "university" and search for "UC San Diego"

Check the box next to UCSD in the dropdown menu

What is the minimum accepted IELTS score?

The minimum acceptable score is 7 . Please check with your department for specific requirements.

Am I required to take an English proficiency exam if I am a U.S. citizen living and going to school outside the U.S.?

As a US citizen you are considered a domestic applicant.  You pay the domestic application fee and are exempt from the TOEFL requirement.

Am I exempt from the TOEFL requirement if I am attending/have attended an institution where the language of Instruction is English?

International applicants may be exempt from this requirement if they have earned or will be earning a bachelor's, master's, or doctoral degree from either:

A regionally accredited U.S. college or university where English is the sole language of instruction, or

A foreign college or university which provides instruction solely in English. You may verify whether your institution meets this requirement by looking up your institution in the IAU World Higher Education Database (WHED) . If English is not the sole language of instruction listed, if no language is listed at all, or if the institution does not appear on the WHED website, you are required to submit English proficiency exam scores. No other documentation (e.g. letters, language certificates, school websites) may be used in place of WHED as a means to obtain an exemption from the English proficiency requirement.

How can I submit my IELTS scores?

To submit official test scores to UC San Diego Graduate Division, applicants must contact the IELTS test center where they took the test to request their official test results to be sent to the address below. UC San Diego does not accept unofficial copies of IELTS Test Report Forms from students. An instution code is NOT required.

UC San Diego Graduate Admissions is registed to receive IELTS scores using the IELTS Results Service E-Delivery, so please send scores to:

University of California, San Diego Graduate Admissions 9500 Gilman Drive #0003 La Jolla, CA 92093-0003

Did you get my test scores?

If you have sent your official GRE and/or TOEFL scores to institution code 4836, they will be reviewed with your application. However, they may not post to your application until you are offered admission. This is not a problem and will not affect the review of your application.

Non Discrimination Statement : In accordance with applicable Federal and State law and University policy, the University of California does not discriminate, or grant preferences, on the basis of race, color, national origin, religion, sex, disability, and/or other protected categories. More information about Proposition 209 can be found here . More information about the University of California Anti-Discrimination Policy can be found here.

General Application Questions

Application Fee Questions

Funding Questions

Test and Scores Questions

Letters of Recommendation Questions

Transcripts Questions

Gender Identity, Sexual Orientation, Ethnicity Questions

International Applicant Questions

Joint Doctoral Program (JDP) Applicant Questions

Undocumented Student Questions

Admitted Student Questions