Enrolling at UC San Diego

Retroactive Enrollment

Retroactive Enrollment

The requests below are defined as retroactive since they occur after the Office of the Registrar’s established deadline. Retroactive requests require review by the Dean of Graduate Education and Postdoctoral Affairs (GEPA) and the Educational Policy Committee (Academic Senate). If the Dean recommends approval, the request will be forwarded to EPC. Per Academic Senate policy, requests may be approved only in cases where (1) the student clearly attempted to add or withdraw from the course by the deadline but technical problems with TritonLink prevented the proper processing of the request; (2) serious personal circumstances (e.g. hospitalization) prevented the student from adding or withdrawing on TritonLink or in person prior to the deadline.

Academic Senate Educational Policies

Grade Option change after week 4

General Petition with the “other” section filled out with ALL course information (number, section, section id, grade option, number of units) and the quarter in which the course was taken. Petition must be signed by the instructor and the Chair of the student’s home department.

Official documentation regarding circumstances that prevented the student from completing the grade option change by the deadline.

If applicable, confirmation from the Registrar/TritonLink that the student attempted to change via WebReg.

A letter of explanation from the student (Optional)

* If approved, the grade will need to be entered via eGrades.

Number of Units change after week 10

General Petition with the “other” section filled out with ALL course information (grade assigned, number, section, section id, grade option, number of units) and the quarter in which the course was taken. Petition must be signed by the instructor and the Chair of the student’s home department.

Official documentation regarding circumstances that prevented the student from completing the change to number of units by the deadline.

If applicable, confirmation from the Registrar/TritonLink that the student attempted to change via WebReg.

A letter of explanation from the student (Optional )

Reminder: students may change the number of units using the Registrar’s EASy system through the 10th week of the quarter. A Petition and official documentation are only necessary after week 10.

Course Drop after week 9

General Petition with the “other” section filled out with ALL course information (number, section, section id, grade option, number of units) and the quarter in which the course was taken. Petition must be signed by the instructor and the Chair of the student’s home department.

Official supporting documentation explaining personal circumstances that prevented the student from withdrawing from the course by the deadline. Please make sure no grade is assigned for the course .

If applicable, confirmation from the Registrar/TritonLink that the student attempted to drop via WebReg prior to the 9th week.

A letter of explanation from the student. (Optional)

Reminder: students may drop using the Registrar’s EASy system through the 9th week of the quarter. A Petition and official documentation are only necessary after week 9.

Course Add after week 10

General Petition with the “other” section filled out with ALL course information (grade assigned, number, section, section id, grade option, number of units) and the quarter in which the course is to be added. Petition must be signed by the instructor and the Chair of the student’s home department.

Official supporting documentation explaining personal circumstances that prevented the student from adding by the deadline.

If applicable, confirmation from the registrar/TritonLink that the student attempted to add via WebReg.

A letter of explanation from the student. (Optional)

*If approved, the grade will need to be entered via eGrades.

Reminder: students may add using the Registrar’s EASy system through the 10th week of the quarter. A petition and letter are only necessary after week 10

Removal of a W from a course dropped after week 4

General Petition with the “other” section filled out with ALL course information (number, section, section id, grade option, number of units) and the quarter in which the course was taken.

A letter of explanation and justification from the instructor and endorsed by the dept chair. The letter should explain why the student could not drop prior to the deadline and why the removal of the W is necessary.

If applicable, confirmation from the registrar/TritonLink that the student attempted to drop via WebReg.

A letter of explanation from the student (Optional)

Non Discrimination Statement : In accordance with applicable Federal and State law and University policy, the University of California does not discriminate, or grant preferences, on the basis of race, color, national origin, religion, sex, disability, and/or other protected categories. More information about Proposition 209 can be found here . More information about the University of California Anti-Discrimination Policy can be found here.

Enrolling at UC San Diego

In Absentia Registration

Leave of Absence/Withdrawal

Retroactive Enrollment

Visiting & Exchange Students