Personal Services

Find out about the many on-campus personal services available to UC San Diego faculty, staff, and students.

ATM and bank/ credit union locations

Bank of America: ATM locations in Price Center

Chase Bank: ATM locations in Price Center

University Credit Union (UCU): The Banking Hub located in the Price Center: ATM Services available 24/7 Walk-ins and appointments available Monday - Friday from 10:00 a.m. – 2:00 p.m. Virtual appointments can be scheduled Monday - Friday 9:00 a.m. - 5:00 p.m. ATM locations in Price Center, Student Center, and Torrey Pines Center South Find more information on the UCU Advisory Center and member services

The Banking Hub located in the Price Center: ATM Services available 24/7 Walk-ins and appointments available Monday - Friday from 10:00 a.m. – 2:00 p.m. Virtual appointments can be scheduled Monday - Friday 9:00 a.m. - 5:00 p.m.

ATM Services available 24/7

Walk-ins and appointments available Monday - Friday from 10:00 a.m. – 2:00 p.m. Virtual appointments can be scheduled Monday - Friday 9:00 a.m. - 5:00 p.m.

Virtual appointments can be scheduled Monday - Friday 9:00 a.m. - 5:00 p.m.

ATM locations in Price Center, Student Center, and Torrey Pines Center South Find more information on the UCU Advisory Center and member services

Cal Coast Credit Union: ATM locations in Birch Aquarium

USE Credit Union: ATM locations in Gilman Parking Structure , Hillcrest Medical Center , Price Center - Advisory Center and East Kiosk, Thornton Hospital , UCSD Extension , Moores Cancer Center .

ATM locations in Gilman Parking Structure , Hillcrest Medical Center , Price Center - Advisory Center and East Kiosk, Thornton Hospital , UCSD Extension , Moores Cancer Center .

Copying and printing

Triton Print & Digital Media provides personal printing services for UC San Diego faculty, staff, and students. All Imprints locations have fax services and full-serve black-and-white and color copying.

There are two campus locations . Hours, special services, and methods of payment vary by location.

Eating/ dining on campus

You'll find numerous places to eat at UC San Diego :

Restaurants, cafés, fast food, pubs

Student dining facilities and the Faculty Club

Stores and shops Lost your snack money in a vending machine ?

Lost your snack money in a vending machine ?

Lactation accommodations

Recognizing the benefits of breastfeeding and in compliance with state law, UC San Diego provides employees who are nursing mothers with a private space to express milk.

Find facilities and services for employees and students who are breastfeeding.

Mail and postal services

You can ship personal packages and find these additional U.S. postal services:

Mail packages and letters to U.S. destinations

Get mailing rates and postage

Rent post office boxes

Send letters up to one pound to foreign countries

Find ZIP code directories

UCSD Postal Center, Price Center East/ Room 1502, (858) 534-1164

The Amazon Hub in the Theatre District Living and Learning neighborhood ( campus map ) offers the campus community and area residents a convenient and secure location to pick up and return Amazon orders. The fully staffed pickup center offers the following:

A secure, convenient place for faculty, staff, and students to retrieve Amazon packages.

Easy returns for Amazon orders. Use the self-service return station to print a return label, box up your items, and ship them back.

Use the self-service return station to print a return label, box up your items, and ship them back.

Free Same-Day Pickup on millions of items for Amazon Prime and Prime Student Members. Order by noon and pick up by 6 p.m. Select Amazon@UCSanDiego as your shipping destination when ordering.

Order by noon and pick up by 6 p.m.

Select Amazon@UCSanDiego as your shipping destination when ordering.

On-site customer service and longer package hold duration (up to 15 days at this location).

Convenient hours* 9 a.m. – 9 p.m. on weekdays and 12 p.m. to 9 p.m. on weekends.

9 a.m. – 9 p.m. on weekdays and 12 p.m. to 9 p.m. on weekends.

*Hours are subject to change during the summer and school holidays.

Passport applications/ photos

Students, staff, faculty, and community members who are U.S. citizens can apply for U.S. passport books and cards at UC San Diego's Passport Acceptance Office.

Apply for a passport

Get passport photos

A professional and convenient option for getting documents notarized quickly and correctly .

The UC San Diego Police Department provides call boxes in many campus parking lots and structures. Use them if you need Police Department assistance or a safety escort.

Restroom locations

Several men's, women's, unisex, and wheelchair-accessible single-occupancy restrooms are located throughout campus.