Admitted Students

Welcome to UC San Diego

Welcome to UC San Diego

Congratulations on your offer of admission to the University of California San Diego - we are excited to have you join our community of scholars!  The checklist below will help guide you through your next steps. Should you have any questions along the way, please contact us.

New Student Guides

What to Do Immediately

What can you do immediately once you are admitted to your grad program?

Before Arriving on Campus

What can you do before you arrive on campus to make sure your transition is as smooth as possible?

After Arriving on Campus

What should you do when you arrive on campus?

International Student Guide

International students may have additional or different requirements to fulfill for enrollment

International Guide

Undocumented Students

Undocumented students are welcomed to apply for graduate school admission. Find information pertaining to the admissions process, financial aid, and resources for undocumented students here.

Undocumented Student Guide

Employment for Graduate Students

Instructional Assistant Employment

Browse the Instructional Assistant database to discover and apply for instructional assistant opportunities, such as Teaching Assistants, Readers, and Tutors. *UCSD SSO log-in required

Other Employment

Beyond the classroom, there are many other employment opportunities available to graduate students so explore the Handshake System to learn more. *UCSD SSO log-in required

Graduate and professional student on-campus housing is in very high demand. We recommend recently admitted students apply for housing and get on a waiting list as soon as possible.

Apply for Housing

Grad Life is a new comprehensive resource hub supporting the success of all UC San Diego graduate students. Visit the site to learn more about academic, financial, social, community, and health resources, as well as events.

A variety of fellowships are awarded to incoming students as a means to increasing campus diversity and supporting student success.

Learn About Fellowships

Non Discrimination Statement : In accordance with applicable Federal and State law and University policy, the University of California does not discriminate, or grant preferences, on the basis of race, color, national origin, religion, sex, disability, and/or other protected categories. More information about Proposition 209 can be found here . More information about the University of California Anti-Discrimination Policy can be found here.

Prospective Students

Admitted Students What to Do Immediately Before You Arrive on Campus When You Arrive on Campus International Students Undocumented Student Guide

What to Do Immediately

Before You Arrive on Campus

When You Arrive on Campus

International Students

Undocumented Student Guide

Compliance/Health and Safety Information