Scholarships for Continuing Undergraduate Students

Scholarships for Continuing Undergraduate Students

Continuing undergraduate students can apply for scholarships annually through the Continuing Student Scholarship Application . The deadline to apply for most scholarships is April 2, 2026 .

Undergraduates may be eligible for two types of scholarships:

Merit scholarships: Based solely on academic achievement. Merit scholarships are listed first and marked below.

Restricted scholarships: Awarded on academic merit plus additional criteria such as demonstrated financial need, field of interest, and/or leadership. If selected, you may need to provide supporting documentation to verify how you meet the restricted criteria. All personal and medical information remains confidential. Scholarships below are restricted unless otherwise marked.

The online application and complete listing of available scholarships typically become available at the start of Winter quarter. Review available scholarships and apply through the Continuing Student Scholarship Application .

File your online application by 11:59 p.m., April 2, 2026.

Correct or update your online application anytime up to the deadline.

Tips for Applying

Some scholarships may have different application deadlines and may require a separate application or supplemental documentation. Refer to the full list below for more information.

File a FAFSA (Free Application for Federal Student Aid) OR if AB540 eligible and not able to file a FAFSA, file a California Dream Act Application (CADAA) by March 2 . Do not file both. Read more about the FAFSA or CADAA .

Read more about the FAFSA or CADAA .

UC San Diego will automatically consider you for any university scholarships for which you qualify based on your financial aid application.

Eligibility is limited to United States citizens or permanent residents (green card holders), or AB540 eligible students.

UC San Diego will email you notification of any scholarship awards ahead of the upcoming fall quarter. Check your application status online using the Continuing Student Scholarship Application .

Continuing Student Scholarships

See the list of scholarships below.

More about Undergraduate Scholarships

In addition to the UC San Diego scholarships below, you may also apply for Undergraduate Research Scholarships , National Competitive Scholarships , and Outside Agency Scholarships .

Former foster youth should apply for the Hope Scholars Program . Remember that all scholarships are awarded on a very competitive basis.

To determine how a scholarship may impact your financial aid eligibility, review our Facts about Scholarships .

Continuing Transfer Scholarships

Looking for transfer-specific scholarships? Click here to head directly to the Enrolled Transfer section.

Scholarships for Continuing Undergraduate Students

Afsahi-Eklund ’90 Family Scholarship

Eligibility: Undergraduate students who have a minimum GPA of 3.0, demonstrated financial need, and are majoring in Communications.

Award amount and term: A 1-year award up to $2,000.

Alan Turing Memorial Scholarship

Eligibility: Computer Science, Computer or Electrical Engineering, Communications, or Political Science/Public Policy* majors, and other programs touching on networked systems, who can describe in their application how they are connected to the LGBTQIA+ community* and are actively advocating for LGBTQIA+ issues. Preference is given to students with demonstrated academic merit, academic involvement and financial need.

CONFIDENTIALITY - The answers you provide in the Opportunity Specific Question section are confidential - only the LGBTQIA+ Scholarship Committee can view your responses. Other committees are blocked from viewing this section.

If awarded this scholarship, we will ask you to provide a statement about how you have contributed to the visibility and advocacy of the LGBTQIA+ community. How does your activism connect to your academic goals and contribute to your area of study? Your name and this statement will be released to the public if you provide us with your consent.

Award amount and term: A 1-year award up to $12,000.

Albert Parvin Scholarship

Eligibility: Engineering majors, who are or have served in the Armed Forces of the United States.

Award amount and term: A 1-year award up to $4,000.

Alice Marriott Scholarship

Eligibility: Academic merit and demonstrated financial need with a preference for Biological Science majors.

Award amount and term: A 1-year award up to $2,000.

Alice Y. Wu Memorial Scholarship

Eligibility: Awarded to Engineering majors with a preference for Computer Science, who are full-time juniors or seniors in the upcoming academic year, with a 3.0+ cum GPA, demonstrated financial need, and have volunteer experience with humanitarian causes or campus/community leadership.

Award amount and term: A 1-year award up to $4,000.

Alumni Leadership Scholarship

Eligibility: Full-time juniors or seniors in the upcoming academic year, with a 3.0+ cum GPA, demonstrated financial need, and demonstrated college-level academic, campus or community service/ leadership.

Award amount and term: Up to 2 years, paid at up to $2,000 annually.

Bay Area Alumni Scholarship

Eligibility: Full-time juniors or seniors in the upcoming academic year, with a 3.0+ cum GPA, with demonstrated financial need, college-level academic, campus or community service/ leadership, and has graduated from a high school in the San Francisco Bay Area.

Award amount and term: A 2-year award up to $2,000 annually.

Bebe and Marvin Zigman Scholarship

Eligibility: Undergraduates, born in California, who are Arts or Humanities majors, who are meaningfully involved in foreign language study, with a 3.0+ cum GPA, and demonstrated financial need. Preference for students interested in a career in Foreign Service.

Award amount and term: A 1-year award up to $5,000.

Bevan Schroeder Memorial Scholarship

Eligibility: Undergraduate students who have academic merit, demonstrated financial need, majoring in Computer Science and Engineering and active in on campus student activities.

Award amount and term: A 1-year award up to $1,000.

Bonnie Reiss Leading on Climate Fellowship – ACADEMIC CAMPUS – Climate Action Fellows

Eligibility: Open to all undergraduate and graduate students. Students from any academic department can apply to help shape the university’s climate action programs.

Award amount: $5,000.

Application: https://ucsd.joinhandshake.com/emp/jobs/9044057

Bonnie Reiss Leading on Climate Fellowship – ACADEMIC CAMPUS – Sustainable Agriculture and Food Fellows

Eligibility: Open to all undergraduate students. Students from any academic department can apply to help research and support sustainable agriculture and food systems.

Award amount: $5,000.

Application: https://ucsd.joinhandshake.com/emp/jobs/9044252

Bonnie Reiss Leading on Climate Fellowship - MED CENTER - Decarbonization Data Management

Eligibility: Registered UC San Diego students interested in doing research towards maintaining climate neutrality, reducing GHG emissions, and positively impacting the environment. Recipient should have experience with data collection and reporting, analysis, interest in and understanding of sustainability and/or sustainable healthcare, have ability to create data visualizations, be a self-starter, reliable, and have ability to balance fellowship workload with school workload. The recipient is expected to be in good academic standing and remain registered during the award period.

Award amount: $5,000.

Application: 24-25 UCSDH Leading on Climate Fellow Application-Decarb-Data-FINAL

Bonnie Reiss Leading on Climate Fellowship - MED CENTER - Energy Decarbonization

Eligibility: Registered UC San Diego students interested in doing research towards maintaining climate neutrality, reducing GHG emissions, and positively impacting the environment. An ideal applicant will have an interest in furthering UC San Diego Health's efforts to reach decarbonization goals through research in high-performance building designs, building controls in the healthcare environment, impacts of decarbonization, CA and national energy efficiency guidelines and codes, LEED certifications for existing buildings, healthcare standard practices in building systems, and/or high energy-intensity healthcare equipment. The recipient is expected to be in good academic standing and remain registered during the award period.

Award amount: $5,000.

Application: 24-25 UCSDH Leading on Climate Fellow Application-Decarb-Energy-FINAL

Bottorff Family Scholarship

Eligibility: For the upcoming academic year, junior or senior standing with high financial need and a minimum 3.0 GPA. Renewable up to one additional academic year contingent on: student continues to demonstrate high financial need, maintains a minimum 3.0 CUM GPA, and funding availability.

Award amount and term: Renewable, paid at up to $2,600 annually.

Breaking Barriers Scholarship

Eligibility: Students who are currently registered, in good academic standing with a cumulative UC San Diego GPA of 2.50 or higher. Students must complete the scholarship application form, online at ucsd.academicworks.com, submit one letter of recommendation, a resume, vitae and/or creative representations of qualifications (poetry, videos, expressive arts, performance, etc.), and a student essay showing your involvement and commitment to equity, diversity, inclusion and social justice.

Award amount and term: One award, $1000.00.

Brutten Family Scholarship

Eligibility: Full-time juniors or seniors in the upcoming academic year, with a 3.0+ cum GPA, demonstrated financial need, and demonstrated college-level academic, campus or community service/ leadership.

Award amount and term: Up to 2 years, paid at up to $2,000 annually.

Brython P. Davis Scholarship

Eligibility: Students whose parents are or were a regular member of the U.S. Navy or Marine Corps.

Award amount and term: One-year award up to $1,000.

C.B. Arrott LGBTQ Endowed Scholarship

Eligibility: UC San Diego undergraduate students with a record of active involvement in the LGBTQIA+ community.

Award amount and term: One-year award up to $1,000.

C. Robert Wartell Memorial Alumni Scholarship

Eligibility: Full-time juniors or seniors in the upcoming academic year, who have a 3.0+ cum GPA, demonstrated financial need, college-level academic, campus or community service/ leadership, and have demonstrated interest in law or justice.

Award amount and term: A 2-year award up to $2,000 annually.

Cambon Family Scholarship

Eligibility: Full-time Economics majors who will be juniors or seniors in the upcoming academic year, with a 3.0+ cum GPA, demonstrated financial need, and college-level academic, campus or community service/ leadership.

Award amount and term: A 2-year award, paid at up to $2,000 annually.

CapitaLand Ascendas Reit Endowed Scholarship

Eligibility: Awarded to undergraduate students who have demonstrated leadership and/or contributions to their community, financial need and are in good standing at UC San Diego. Eligible students must have a declared major in one of the following:

Economics Mathematics Rady School of Management The Halicioglu Data Science Institute Urban Studies and Planning Jacobs School of Engineering Scripps Institution of Oceanography Public Law

Award amount and term: One-year award up to $5,000.

Charles and Cora L. Ash Scholarship

Eligibility: Academic merit and demonstrated financial need, with preference for students majoring in Biological Sciences.

Award amount and term: One-year award up to $2,000.

Chen Del Pero Endowed Scholarship

Eligibility: UC San Diego students who are majoring in Social Sciences, have financial need and have a minimum GPA of 3.00 or higher.

Award amount and term: One-year Award up to $2,000 annually.

Cheryl Renee Persky Memorial Scholarship

Eligibility : Electrical Engineering or Computer Science majors.

Award amount and term: One-year award, up to $2,000.

CK and Jenny Cheng Scholarship

Eligibility: Computer Science, Electrical or Computer Engineering majors, at the Jacobs School of Engineering, based on academic merit.

Award amount and term: One-year award up to $1,500.

Darcy and Robert Bingham Endowed Scholarship

Eligibility: UC San Diego student employees, working 15+ hours per week, at least one quarter in the current academic year and will continue working Fall, Winter, and Spring in the upcoming academic year. Requires quarterly employment verification (PDF) .

Award amount and term: One-year award up to $2,000.

Del Corazon Foundation Endowed Scholarship

Eligibility: Undergraduate students in the School of Social Sciences who are majoring in Real Estate and Development, first generation to attend to college and have a minimum 3.0 GPA.

Award amount and term: One-year award up to $5,000.

Diana C. Miles Scholarship

Eligibility: UC San Diego students, with a preference for undergraduates who are actively interested in music and/or are Music majors.

Award amount and term: One-year award up to $3,000.

Dottie Conway Memorial Scholarship

Eligibility: Full-time juniors or seniors in the upcoming academic year, with a 3.0+ cum GPA, demonstrated financial need, and demonstrated college-level academic, campus or community service/ leadership.

Award amount and term: Up to 2 years, paid at up to $2,000 annually.

Drs. Thomas Baker, MD and Marc Better, PhD Scholarship

Eligibility: Undergraduate students at UCSD who have a senior standing, a minimum 3.5 grade point average, demonstrated financial need, and are pursuing a major associated with Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics (STEM). Additionally, preferences to Revelle College students would be prioritized.

Award amount and term: One-year award, up to $3,000

E. Coke Hill Scholarship

Eligibility: Academic merit and demonstrated financial need, with a preference for students majoring in the Social Sciences.

Award amount and term: One-year award up to $2,500.

Edward Waguih Ishak Scholarship

Eligibility: Awarded to Engineering majors with demonstrated financial need.

Renewable up to one additional academic year contingent on good academic standing, demonstrated financial need and funding availability.

Award amount and term: Renewable, paid at up to $2,000 annually.

Errett Bishop Scholarship

Eligibility: Mathematics majors, who will be juniors or seniors in the upcoming academic year, with demonstrated financial need. Preference will be given to senior applicants.

Award amount and term: One-year award up to $3,000.

F. Thomas Bond Revelle College Scholarship

Eligibility: Revelle College students who will be seniors in the upcoming academic year, have a 3.7+ cum GPA, and participated in significant extra-curricular campus activity.

Award amount and term: One-year award, minimum of $1,000.

Future Leaders in STEM Scholarship

Eligibility: Biological Science majors, 3.0+ GPA, junior or senior standing in the upcoming academic year, with emphasis on research experience and/or employment, extracurricular activities related to Biological Sciences.

Award amount and term: One-year award up to $3,600.

Gary C. Reynolds Memorial Scholarship

Eligibility: Combined Mathematics-Computer Science majors, who will be juniors or seniors in the upcoming academic year, who show exceptional promise for making future contributions in their field of study. Prior recipients of this award are not eligible.

Award amount and term: One-year award up to $2,000.

George Kurata ’67 Leadership Scholarship

Eligibility: Currently enrolled juniors or seniors with a 3.0+ GPA, have demonstrated financial need; and have academic, campus, or community leadership experience. Preference for applicants who have achieved the highest award in either Boy Scouts or Girl Scouts. Examples include the Boy Scout Eagle Scout Award and the Girl Scout Gold Award. Other Boy Scout awards for consideration are the Venturing Scout Summit Award and the Sea Scout Quartermaster Award.

Award amount and term: As part of the Alumni Leadership Scholarship Program, awards are $2,000 for up to two years.

George Parker Memorial Scholarship

Eligibility: Students with demonstrated financial need, who were orphaned for at least 3 years prior the age of 18, and/or who were raised in foster care for at least 3 years immediately prior to the age of 18.

Award amount and term: Renewable, paid at up to $2,000 annually.

Gregory T. Bryan Scholarship

Eligibility: Full-time juniors or seniors in the upcoming academic year, who are Social Sciences or Arts & Humanities majors, with a 3.0+ cum GPA, have demonstrated financial need, and college-level academic, campus or community service/ leadership.

Award amount and term: A 2-year award, paid at up to $2,000 annually.

Hajim Family Alumni Scholarship

Eligibility: Full-time juniors or seniors in the upcoming academic year, who are Visual Art majors, with a 3.0+ cum GPA, demonstrated financial need, and have college-level academic, campus or community service/ leadership.

Award amount and term: A 2-year award up to $2,000.

Italo Scanga Memorial Scholarship

Eligibility: Visual Arts majors. Faculty Letter of Recommendation required.

Award amount and term: One-year award up to $2,000.

James W. Barnes Scholarship

Eligibility: Mechanical, Electrical, Computer Engineering or Computer Science majors, with 3.0+ cum GPA, and demonstrated financial need.

Award amount and term: One-year award up to $2,000.

James R. Bunch Mathematics Scholarship

Eligibility: Applied or Computational Mathematics majors, full time juniors or seniors in the upcoming academic year, with a 3.0+ cum GPA; with a preference for applicants who have enrolled in Math sequence 170-179, supply a Faculty recommendation letter, are California residents with demonstrated financial need.

Award amount and term: One-year award up to $3,000.

JAY '93 Undergraduate Scholarship

Eligibility: Economics majors, with a 3.75+ cum GPA, and demonstrated financial need. Preference given to students from Los Angeles County.

Award amount and term: One-year award up to $1,800.

Jeffrey R. Leifer Scholarship

Eligibility: First-generation college students (i.e. parents are not graduates of a 4 year college) with demonstrated financial need who graduated from California high schools that have historically been underrepresented at UC campuses.

Award amount and term: One-year award up to $1,500.

Jim and Julie Lin Environmental Justice in Underserved Communities Scholarship

Eligibility: Undergraduate students who are passionate about helping underserved communities in environmental justice. Students must have a Junior class standing, have at least a 2.50 GPA and must plan to graduate by Spring 2024. This award is intended for a student who is committed to helping underserved populations mobilize, sustain, and protect their communities in the face of our current climate crisis.

Award amount and term: One-year award up to $2,500.

Joseph H. Lima Scholarship

Eligibility: Students from an immigrant family (student or parents born outside the U.S.), who have immigrated or are immigrating to U.S., including those with visa status of “asylee”, who have demonstrated financial need and college-level academic, campus or community service/ leadership.

Award amount and term: A 2-year award up to $2,000 annually.

Karen Moraghan Scholarship

Eligibility: Communications majors, who are full-time juniors or seniors in the upcoming academic year, with a 3.0+ cum GPA, demonstrated financial need, and college-level academic, campus or community service/ leadership.

Award amount and term: A 2-year award up to $2,000 annually.

Kathryn Lane Alumni Scholarship

Eligibility: Full-time Revelle College juniors or seniors in the upcoming academic year, with a 3.0+ cum GPA, demonstrated financial need, and demonstrated college-level academic, campus or community service/ leadership.

Award amount and term: Up to two years at $2,000 annually.

Ken Bowles Scholarship for CSE

Eligibility: Full-time Computer Science and Engineering majors, who will be seniors in the upcoming academic year, with a 3.0+ cum GPA. Preference given to students with demonstrated financial need, and who may have knowledge or experience with the UC San Diego Pascal Application.

Award amount and term: One-year award up to $3,000.

Kevin T. Hart Memorial Scholarship

Eligibility: Full-time juniors or seniors in the upcoming academic year, with a 3.0+ cum GPA, demonstrated financial need, college-level academic, campus or community service/ leadership, and has experienced either mental illness or homelessness personally or through experiences of a family member.

Award amount and term: A 2-year award up to $2,000 annually.

Klara D. Eckart Scholarship

Eligibility: Computation (Computer Science), Mathematics, or Physics majors based on academic merit.

Award amount and term: One-year award up to $1,800.

Knapp Family ‘67/’90 Scholarship

Eligibility: Third or fourth year undergraduate students with demonstrated high financial need.

Award amount and term: One-year award up to $2,500.

Kyoko Matsuda Scholarship

Eligibility: Physics majors, who plan to teach at the high school level. Preference given to students with demonstrated financial need.

Award amount and term: One-year award up to $2,000.

LaVerne Noyes Foundation Scholarship

Eligibility: Direct descendants of U.S. World War I veterans (i.e. four months of U.S. service prior to November 11, 1918), with demonstrated financial need.

Award amount and term: One-year award up to $1,800.

LCDR Gregory A. Chauncey and Naomi C. Broering Veterans Engineering Scholarship

Eligibility: Undergraduate students at the Jacobs School of Engineering, with a preference that the scholarship will be awarded to U.S. citizens who are naval combat veterans. They must have served in either the U.S. Navy or U.S. Marine Corps, and assigned to a combat zone. In the event there are no combat applicants, it can be awarded to any service person or veteran who served in the cited services.

Award amount and term: One-year award up to $3,000.

Lee-Karlon Bioengineering Scholarship

Eligibility: Undergraduate students who are majoring in Bioengineering. Must be at a junior level and 1st generation college students. Must have demonstrated financial need, and a minimum 3.0 GPA.

Award amount and term: One-year award up to $2,000.

Loury Family Engineering Endowed Scholarship

Eligibility: Undergraduate students who are majoring in Engineering and have academic, campus, or community leadership experience. Must have demonstrated financial need, and a minimum 3.0 GPA.

Award amount and term: One-year award up to $2,000.

Madrinas and Padrinos Scholarship Endowment

Eligibility: First Generation continuing student who has Financial Need based on a FAFSA or California Dream Application. Demonstrated contributions to equity, diversity, inclusion or social justice for Chicanx/Latinx communities. Current or planned research or other scholarly activities associated with Chicanx/Latinx topics and communities.

Award amount and term: A one-year award up to $4,000.

Mae Brown Scholarship

Eligibility: Marshall College student, with demonstrated financial need, and first-generation college student (i.e. parents not graduate from a 4-year college).

Award amount and term: One-year award up to $5,000.

Marchick-Rallo Alumni Scholarship

Eligibility: Full-time juniors or seniors in the upcoming academic year, who have a 3.0+ cum GPA, demonstrated financial need, have college-level academic, campus or community service/ leadership, and have or are currently participating in UC San Diego Student Government.

Award amount and term: A 2-year award up to $2,000 annually.

Mary Katherine Long Endowed Scholarship

Eligibility: Undergraduate students who are traditionally underrepresented in STEM. Preference will be given to applicants who have lived under difficult circumstances or lacked educational opportunities and demonstrate financial need.

Award amount and term: One-year award up to $2,000.

Marye Anne Fox and James Whitesell Scholarship

Eligibility: Natural Sciences or Engineering majors. Preference is given to students with demonstrated financial need, and dependents of UC San Diego employees.

Award amount and term: One-year award, amount varies.

Milane Christiansen Scholarship

Eligibility: Literature majors based on academic merit.

Award amount and term: One-year award up to $2,400.

Nelson Family Scholarship

Eligibility: Full-time juniors or seniors in the upcoming academic year, with a 3.0+ cum GPA, demonstrated financial need, and demonstrated college-level academic, campus or community service/ leadership.

Award amount and term: Up to 2 years, paid at up to $2,000 annually.

O'Leary Scholarship

Eligibility: Full-time juniors or seniors in the upcoming academic year, with a 3.0+ cum GPA, demonstrated financial need, and demonstrated college-level academic, campus or community service/ leadership.

Award amount and term: Up to 2 years, paid at up to $2,000 annually.

Patricia Ordonez Valva Scholarship

Eligibility: Full-time juniors or seniors in the upcoming academic year, with a 3.0+ cum GPA, demonstrated financial need, and academic, campus, or community leadership, and have suffered the death of a parent from cancer or who has cancer affecting an immediate family member.

Award amount and term: One-year award up to $2,000.

Paul '82 and Erika White Scholarship Endowment

Eligibility: Full-time juniors or seniors in the upcoming academic year, who are California residents, with a 3.0+ cumulative GPA, have college-level academic, campus or community service/ leadership, and demonstrated financial need.

Award amount and term: A 2-year award up to $2,000.

Philip and Elizabeth Hiestand Scholarship for Transfer Engineering Students

Eligibility: U.S. citizen transfer students, who are Engineering majors, with a 3.0+ cum GPA, and demonstrated financial need. Preference for students who served in the U.S. military.

Award amount and term: One-year award up to $4,000.

Philip R. & Pamela Fadem Palisoul Alumni Scholarship

Eligibility: Arts or Humanities majors, Revelle College students, junior or senior standing in the upcoming academic year, 3.0+ GPA, service/leadership (college-level academic, campus or community involvement), and demonstrated financial need.

Award amount and term: Up to 2 years, paid at up to $2,000 annually.

Raza Resource Centro Transfer Scholarship

Eligibility: Full time continuing Transfer student, with a 2.0+ GPA, who has demonstrated action / support / leadership in helping high school or community college Latinx students advance to college or university. Enrollment for the upcoming Fall , Winter , or Spring quarters is required.

Award amount and term: One-year award up to $1,750.

Revelle College Inaugural Class Scholarship

Eligibility: Revelle College juniors or seniors in the upcoming academic year with a 3.0+ GPA, and campus/community leadership, or volunteer experience.

Award amount and term: One-year award up to $2,400; renewable.

Richard L. and Fern W. Erion and Laidlaw-Erion Scholarship

Eligibility: Seniors in the upcoming academic year, with demonstrated financial need, and high academic standing.

Award amount and term: One-year award up to $2,500.

Rick Ord Scholarship Fund

Eligibility: Undergraduate students who are Computer Science and Engineering Majors (CSE) at Jacobs School of Engineering. Minimum 3.25 GPA.

Award amount and term: One-year award up to $3,000.

Robert and Arleen Lettas Scholarship

Eligibility: Social Sciences majors with demonstrated financial need.

Award amount and term: One-year award up to $2,500.

Robert and Pat Whalen Military Transfer Scholarship

Eligibility: Transfer students who have served in the U.S. Armed Forces as enlisted or non-commissioned officers, have demonstrated financial need, and are Engineering majors. Preference given to those who have transferred to UC San Diego through Transfer Admission Guarantee (TAG) or UniversityLink.

Award amount and term: One-year award, up to $2,000.

Sarah Roman Vyse Physics Scholarship

Eligibility: Physics, Astronomy, and Astrophysics majors, who are full-time juniors or seniors in the upcoming academic year, with a 3.0+ cum GPA, demonstrated financial need, and college-level academic, campus or community service/ leadership.

Award amount and term: A 2-year award up to $2,000 annually.

Stanley E. Mills Memorial Scholarship

Eligibility: Microbiology majors or related fields of study, with a 3.0+ cum GPA. Preference will be given to students interested in studying nutrition or aging.

Award amount and term: One-year award up to $2,500.

Student Foundation Scholarships

Eligibility: Continuing students of any major who have demonstrated financial need, and college-level academic, campus or community service leadership. Students are selected based on their GPA, community service, and personal statement.

Award amount and term: One-year award up to $2,000.

Sudha and Kosal Krishnan PhD ’93 Scholarship

Eligibility: Structural Engineering major, junior or senior, 3.00+ cumulative GPA, demonstrated financial need and college level academic, campus or community involvement.

Award amount and term: One-year award up to $2,500.

Sven Peterson Memorial Scholarship

Eligibility: A Warren College sophomore or junior in the upcoming academic year, majoring in an area other than Engineering or Life Sciences, who has been named to the Warren College Provost’s Honors list at least one quarter, and has a 3.0+ cum GPA.

Award amount and term: One-year award of $3,000.

Tara and Philip ’99 Payne Scholarship

Eligibility: Third or fourth year Muir College undergraduate students with demonstrated high financial need.

Award amount and term: One-year award up to $2,500.

Tenie Remmel Memorial Scholarship

Eligibility: Division of Physical Sciences majors, based on academic merit, who have demonstrated financial need.

Award amount and term: One-year award up to $2,500.

The Allen-Niesen Family Hope Scholarship

Eligibility: Students who are former foster youth with high financial need. Preference to those students participating in the Hope Scholars Program.

Award amount and term: One-year award up to $2,500.

Thomas B. Curtis Scholarship

Eligibility: Biology, Chemistry, or Physics majors, who are juniors or seniors in the upcoming academic year, with at least a 2.75 cum GPA. Must demonstrate interest in the larger world around them with leadership level involvement outside the classroom through participation in the following activities in order of preference (1) student government, (2) clubs, (3) community affairs.

Award amount and term: One-year award up to $2,000.

Tom Tucker Alumni Leadership Scholarship

Eligibility: Full-time junior or senior in the upcoming academic year, with a 3.4+ cum GPA, demonstrated financial need, college-level academic, campus or community service/leadership, and have or are participating in UC San Diego Student Government.

Award amount and term: One-year award up to $10,000.

UC Carbon Neutrality Initiative Student Engagement Fellowship

Eligibility: Registered UC San Diego students interested in the communications aspect of maintaining climate neutrality, reducing GHG emissions, and positively impacting the environment. The recipient is expected to be in good academic standing and remain registered during the award period.

Award amount and term: One-year award up to $4,000. The Student Engagement Fellow will also have access to a $1,000 budget for campus programming.

Application: http://faoforms.ucsd.edu/forms/CNIStudentEngagement.pdf

UC Carbon Neutrality Initiative Student Project Fellowship

Eligibility: Registered UC San Diego students interested in doing research towards maintaining climate neutrality, reducing GHG emissions, and positively impacting the environment. The recipient is expected to be in good academic standing and remain registered during the award period.

Award amount and term: One-year award up to $4,000.

Application: http://faoforms.ucsd.edu/forms/CNIResearch.pdf

UC Global Food Initiative Fellowship/Internship

Eligibility: Registered UC San Diego students interested in doing research on urban agriculture, sustainable food systems, and food justice. The recipient is expected to be in good academic standing and remain registered during the award period.

Award amount and term: One-year award up to $4,000.

Application: http://faoforms.ucsd.edu/forms/GlobalFoodInitiative.pdf

UC San Diego Faculty-Staff Employee Dependent Scholarship

Eligibility: Students with a 3.0+ cum GPA, demonstrated financial need, who are dependents of UC San Diego employees.

Award amount and term: One-year award, amount varies.

UC San Diego Health Decarbonization Fellowship: Climate Resilience

Eligibility: Registered UC San Diego students interested in using communication to participate in broad-based decarbonization efforts and contribute to making a positive impact on the environment and human health. Interested applicants should have general knowledge and understanding of sustainability and sustainable practices, as well as an interest in climate resilience and climate action planning. The recipient is expected to be in good academic standing and remain registered during the award period.

Award amount and term: $8,000

Application: Decarb Fellow_Climate Resilience_final

UC San Diego Health Decarbonization Fellowship: Waste Reduction

Eligibility: Registered UC San Diego students interested in contributing to healthcare waste reduction and resource conservation, as well as sustainable practices in the workplace. Interested applicants should have general knowledge and understanding of waste reduction principles and sustainable practices, as well as experience in research, data collection and reporting. The recipient is expected to be in good academic standing and remain registered during the award period.

Award amount and term: $8,000

Application: Decarb Fellow_Waste Reduction-Final

UC San Diego Town and Gown Scholarship

Eligibility: Full-time juniors or seniors in the upcoming academic year, with a 3.65+ cum GPA, with demonstrated financial need, who show exceptional promise for making future contributions in public or community service (including but not limited to foreign affairs, medicine, social service, and political science). Prior Town and Gown Scholarship recipients are not eligible to reapply.

Award amount and term: One-year award up to $6,000.

UJIMA Network Black History Month Scholarship

Eligibility: Undergraduate, currently enrolled full-time students, who have demonstrated academic achievement in the study of African American history or culture, through a research paper or publicly presented creative work. Nomination by UC San Diego Faculty.

Award amount and term: One-year award up to $2,500.

Ursula and Hans Moede Hope Scholarship

Eligibility: For the upcoming academic year, junior or senior standing with demonstrated high financial need and who are former foster youth. Preference to those students participating in the Hope Scholars Program.

Award amount and term: One-year award up to $2,000.

Varga-Bacinski-Dillon Scholarship

Eligibility: Third or fourth year undergraduate students with demonstrated high financial need.

Award amount and term: One-year award up to $2,500.

Venugopal United States Military Family Scholarship

Eligibility: Dependent of a United States military veteran or service member; demonstrated financial need; and has overcome significant adversity or obstacles.

Award amount and term: One-year award up to $15,000.

Vickerman/Munoz Family Scholarship

Eligibility: Full-time juniors or seniors in the upcoming academic year, with a 3.0+ cum GPA, demonstrated financial need, and demonstrated college-level academic, campus or community service/ leadership.

Award amount and term: Up to 2 years, paid at up to $2,000 annually.

Visual Arts Endowment Scholarship

Eligibility: Visual Art majors with academic merit and demonstrated financial need.

Award amount and term: One-year award up to $4,000.

Volt Alumni Scholarship

Eligibility: Full-time juniors or seniors in the upcoming academic year, who are Engineering or Arts & Humanities majors, with a 3.0+ cum GPA, demonstrated financial need, and demonstrated academic, campus, or community service/ leadership.

Award amount and term: A 2-year award up to $2,000 annually.

Walsh Chacon Scholarship

Eligibility: Full-time juniors or seniors in the upcoming academic year, with a 3.0+ cum GPA, demonstrated financial need, college-level academic, campus or community service/ leadership, and who can meet one or more of the following requirements: Come from zip codes 92113, 91950, 92154, or 91910; are UC San Diego Preuss School graduates; or attended the Toussaint Academy of the Arts and Sciences.

Award amount and term: A 2-year award up to $2,000 annually.

William Denman Scholarship

Eligibility: Outstanding Philosophy, Comparative Religions, or International Relations majors based on academic merit.

Award amount and term: One-year award up to $2,000.

William F. Rogers Jr. Scholarship - Merit

Eligibility: Academic merit, with a preference for students majoring in Social Sciences.

Award amount and term: One-year award up to $2,500.

William Stout Scholarship - Merit

Eligibility: Academic merit, with a preference for students majoring in the Arts & Humanities.

Award amount and term: One-year award up to $2,500.

Willis & Jane Fletcher Foundation and Peter T. Fletcher Scholarship

Eligibility: Continuing student with sophomore standing in the upcoming academic year who is a graduate of a San Diego County high school, with demonstrated financial need, and community service.

Award amount and term: One-year award up to $2,500.

Woo Family Scholarship

Eligibility: Full-time juniors or seniors in the upcoming academic year, first-generation college students (i.e. parents are not graduates of a 4 year college), with a 3.0+ cum GPA, demonstrated financial need, and demonstrated college-level academic, campus, or community service/leadership.

Award amount and term: Up to 2 years, paid at up to $2,000 annually.

Scholarships for Enrolled Transfer Students

Michael Miller Engineering Scholarship for Transfer Students

Eligibility: Transfer students:

Who are engineering majors

Have demonstrated financial need

Award amount and term: A 1-year undergraduate award of up to $2,500.

Other: In your resume and/or essay, provide information about your interest in engineering.

Vickerman/Munoz Family Scholarship for Transfer Students

Eligibility: This Alumni Leadership Scholarship is awarded to full-time undergraduate transfer students with:

Demonstrated financial need

College-level academic, campus, or community service/ leadership experience

Award amount and term: A 2-year undergraduate award for up to $2,000 annually.

Other: In your resume and/or essay, provide information about your community service.

Robert and Pat Whalen Military Transfer Scholarship

Eligibility: Awarded to transfer students who:

Have served in the U.S. Armed Forces as enlisted or non-commissioned officers

Have demonstrated financial need

Are majoring in Engineering

Award amount and term: A 1-year undergraduate award; the amount varies.

Other: Preference given to those who have transferred to UC San Diego through UniversityLink .

In your resume and/or essay:

Provide information about your military service

Provide a confirmation statement on your status as an enlisted or non-commissioned officer

File a FAFSA to verify financial need

If applicable, indicate if you were a TAG or UniversityLink participant

Have questions? Use this resource to find answers to all your frequently asked questions.

Frequently Asked Questions

Entering First-Year Students

Entering Transfer Students

Chancellor's Scholarships for Entering First-Year

Regents Scholarships for Entering Freshmen

Continuing Undergraduate Students

Receiving Scholarship Funds from Non-UC San Diego Organizations

Middle Class Scholarship

Outside Agency Scholarships