Student Services

Working in the U.S.

J-1 Academic Training (AT)

J-1 Academic Training (AT)

(This page has a friendly link that's easy to remember: AT.ucsd.edu )

Academic Training (AT) is a period of authorized off-campus employment directly related to a student’s field of study. J-1 students may participate in AT either before (pre-completion) or after (post-completion) graduation. AT is required for both paid positions and unpaid internships. AT is not required for volunteering .

J-1 students sponsored by a program (i.e Fulbright, CONACYT, etc.) should contact their program sponsors regarding Academic Training eligibility requirements. Find job-searching resources on our How to Find Internationally Friendly Employers website.

Before Applying for AT

Pre-Completion Eligibility

Pre-Completion Academic Training (AT) Eligibility:

Be in valid J-1 status and have a valid passport and DS-2019

Have completed at least one quarter in J-1 status

Maintain full-time (12 units) enrollment during the academic year Note: If you have an approved Reduced Course Load (RCL) for a specific academic term, your enrollment in that term is considered to be full-time for the purposes of this requirement.

Note: If you have an approved Reduced Course Load (RCL) for a specific academic term, your enrollment in that term is considered to be full-time for the purposes of this requirement.

Enroll in an internship course Typical course numbers f:or undergraduates are: 191, 196, 197, 198 or 199 Typical course numbers for graduate students are: 291, 297, 298, or 299 Summer Term: Undergraduates must enroll in the summer term. Graduate students are not required to enroll in internship units during the summer term, but they are required to complete the Academic Training Completion Request in iServices by the first day of the Fall Quarter.

Typical course numbers f:or undergraduates are: 191, 196, 197, 198 or 199

Typical course numbers for graduate students are: 291, 297, 298, or 299

Summer Term: Undergraduates must enroll in the summer term. Graduate students are not required to enroll in internship units during the summer term, but they are required to complete the Academic Training Completion Request in iServices by the first day of the Fall Quarter.

Must apply while physically present within the U.S.

Employment Requirements:

Must have a job offer in hand before applying for AT

Must be related to your field of study EAP/GE students may pursue AT in any field of study, so long as it is a substantial activity which allows students to gain valuable work experience as well as continue their cultural exchange and educational knowledge. The AT should consist of bona fide training activities that are connected to a substantial academic framework and are designed to expose participants to the operations of a specific field or industry.

EAP/GE students may pursue AT in any field of study, so long as it is a substantial activity which allows students to gain valuable work experience as well as continue their cultural exchange and educational knowledge. The AT should consist of bona fide training activities that are connected to a substantial academic framework and are designed to expose participants to the operations of a specific field or industry.

Can be a paid or unpaid internship or a job off-campus

Can be part-time during the academic year (fall, winter, and spring quarters) or full-time in the summer Note : Graduate students who have advanced to candidacy may pursue full-time AT during the academic year, if they receive approval from their department

Note : Graduate students who have advanced to candidacy may pursue full-time AT during the academic year, if they receive approval from their department

Due to updated Department of State guidance released in June 2023, J-1 students may not work remotely (from a residential address) for their employer/organizations for more than 40% per week (e.g., no more than two days out of a five-day work week).

What if I also have a J-1 On-Campus Work Authorization?

Employment under AT is not counted in the cumulative 20-hour per week limit for J-1 On Campus Work Authorizations. However,  ISEO and your college / department must consider the impact that all employment have on a student’s studies, as the primary objective of a J-1 degree seeking student is ultimately their academic degree program, not employment.

If you are interested in the combination of your Pre-Completion AT and J-1 On Campus Employment exceeding 20 hours per week during the academic year:

Undergraduate Students: Please consult with your academic advisor and ISEO.

Graduate Students: Please consult with your graduate coordinator and ISEO. Policies set by the Division of Graduate Education and Postdoctoral Affairs (GEPA) may prevent you from exceeding a combined total of 20 hours per week.

EAP / GE Students: Please consult with ISEO.

Post-Completion Eligibility

Post-Completion Academic Training (AT) Eligibility:

Post-completion AT is open to J-1 degree-seeking, Education Abroad Program (EAP), and Global Exchange (GE) students. You must submit your post-completion AT application to ISEO a minimum of 10 business days before your Program End Date and before your DS-2019 end date to extend it in a timely manner.

To be eligible for post-completion AT, students:

Must be in valid J-1 status and have a valid passport and DS-2019.

Must have completed at least one quarter in J-1 status.

Must apply while physically present within the U.S.

Must be authorized for post-completion AT before their Program End Date. To determine your Program End Date, continue reading in the next section below. IMPORTANT! J-1 SEVIS records automatically change to Inactive status the day after the DS-2019 end date. To be eligible for Post-Completion Academic Training, you must submit your application to ISEO for a minimum of 10 business days before your Program End Date and before your DS-2019 end date to extend it in a timely manner. Note: The end date on your DS-2019 is generally an estimate and may not reflect your true Program End Date. See below for more information on determining your AT application timeline.

IMPORTANT! J-1 SEVIS records automatically change to Inactive status the day after the DS-2019 end date. To be eligible for Post-Completion Academic Training, you must submit your application to ISEO for a minimum of 10 business days before your Program End Date and before your DS-2019 end date to extend it in a timely manner. Note: The end date on your DS-2019 is generally an estimate and may not reflect your true Program End Date. See below for more information on determining your AT application timeline.

Important : If you have received a recommendation for a waiver of the two-year home residency requirement , you are not eligible for an extension of your DS-2019 to participate in post-completion AT. However, you may still participate in pre-completion AT.

Determine your Post-Completion AT application timeline based on your Program End Date:

Post-completion AT application timelines depends on the true Program End Date on which each student will complete their program. Students are responsible for understanding their true Program End Date (see below) and determining their timeline to apply for post-completion AT.

Be aware that the end date on your DS-2019 is generally an estimate and may not reflect your true Program End Date. The Form DS-2019 must be in valid status (end date showing in the future) in order to apply for post-completion AT.

UNDERSTAND YOUR TRUE PROGRAM END DATE:

Undergraduate Students: Your program end date is the last day of your final graduating quarter.

Your program end date is the last day of your final graduating quarter.

Graduate (Master's or PhD) Students: Your Program End Date may be different depending on enrollment or employment in your final graduating quarter. You may use whichever of the following dates is the latest as your Program End Date: The last day of enrollment in your final graduating quarter, OR The last date of eligible on-campus employment as outlined by GEPA , OR If required to pay filing fee, date of Comprehensive Exam/Thesis Defense.

Your Program End Date may be different depending on enrollment or employment in your final graduating quarter. You may use whichever of the following dates is the latest as your Program End Date: The last day of enrollment in your final graduating quarter, OR The last date of eligible on-campus employment as outlined by GEPA , OR If required to pay filing fee, date of Comprehensive Exam/Thesis Defense.

The last day of enrollment in your final graduating quarter, OR

The last date of eligible on-campus employment as outlined by GEPA , OR

If required to pay filing fee, date of Comprehensive Exam/Thesis Defense.

IMPORTANT: To be eligible for Post-Completion Academic Training, you must submit your application to ISEO at least 10 business days before your Program End Date and before your DS-2019 end date. Both your true Program End Date and your DS-2019 end date must be in the future to apply for post-completion AT.

Frequently Asked Question: What’s the difference between the end date on my DS-2019, and my true Program End Date?

DS-2019 end date: The estimated program completion date listed on your Form DS-2019 document. Must be in the future or match your true Program End Date to maintain J-1 status and be eligible for post-completion Academic Training.

True Program End Date: The date you complete your degree requirements for immigration purposes, in accord with the criteria outlined above. The end date on your DS-2019 must match or be in the future from your true Program End Date in to maintain J-1 status and be eligible for post-completion Academic Training.

Employment Requirements:

Must have a job offer in hand before applying for AT.

Must be related to your field of study. EAP / GE students may pursue AT in any field of study, so long as it is a substantial activity which allows students to gain valuable work experience as well as continue their cultural exchange and educational knowledge. The AT should consist of bona fide training activities that are connected to a substantial academic framework and are designed to expose participants to the operations of a specific field or industry.

EAP / GE students may pursue AT in any field of study, so long as it is a substantial activity which allows students to gain valuable work experience as well as continue their cultural exchange and educational knowledge. The AT should consist of bona fide training activities that are connected to a substantial academic framework and are designed to expose participants to the operations of a specific field or industry.

The employment must be a minimum of 20 hours per week and it can be paid or unpaid.

Employment must begin within thirty (30) days of the Program End D ate .

You can have multiple employers at one time, as long as all are related to your field of study and separate AT request forms are submitted for each employer.

Due to updated Department of State guidance released in June 2023, J-1 students may not work remotely (from a residential address) for their employer/organizations for more than 40% per week (e.g., no more than two days out of a five-day work week).

Health Insurance:

Students must have health insurance at all times. For example, if your UC Student Health Insurance Plan (UC SHIP) coverage ends today, your new non-UC SHIP coverage needs to begin tomorrow.

Duration of Academic Training

Example: f you are on a 6-month program, then you are eligible for only 6 months of AT. If you are in a 24-month graduate program, then you are eligible for only 18 months of AT.

Doctorate (PhD) students in J-1 status are allowed to apply for a maximum total of thirty-six (36) months of AT, or for a period equal to the length of the study program, whichever is shorter. Prior to degree completion, PhD students are limited to 18 months of AT. After degree completion, PhD students may apply for the full 36 months (or maximum) of Post-Completion AT.

AT is cumulative . The duration of approved Pre-Completion AT will subtract against your available Post-Completion AT.

Example: If you are eligible for up to 18 months of AT and are approved for 8 months of Pre-Completion AT, you will have 10 months of Post-Completion AT available.

Part-time employment is still counted on a full-time basis when calculating the duration of your AT  (e.g., 6 months of work at 20 hours per week is still counted as 6 months of AT used, not 3 months of AT used).

Length of Academic Training

Length of Academic Training

Amount of Academic Training:

Bachelor's or Master's Degree-Seeking Student

Eligible for up to 18 months of AT

Total training period (including both pre-completion and post-completion) must not exceed 18 months.

Doctorate Degree- Seeking Student

Eligible for up to 36 months of AT.

Eligible for a total of 36 months of AT including both pre-completion and post-completion. Limited to 18 months of AT prior to degree completion.

Non-degree Student (EAP Reciprocity or Global Exchange)

Total training period is equal to duration of program: 1 quarter = 3 months of AT 2 quarters = 6 months of AT 3 quarters = 9 months of AT

Total training period is equal to duration of program:

1 quarter = 3 months of AT

2 quarters = 6 months of AT

3 quarters = 9 months of AT

Total training period includes both pre-completion and post-completion AT

Academic Training - Immigration News Highlight

09/16/2024: U.S Department of State has extended the Academic Training STEM Extension until June 30, 2026.

ISEO will consider students eligible for the extension if they are in a STEM field and are in Active J status (either studying under a degree program or on post-completion AT). If currently studying, degree program must be completed by June 2026.

If currently studying, degree program must be completed by June 2026.

01/21/2022: Opportunity for Academic Training Extensions for J-1 College and University Students in STEM Fields

The U.S. Department of State's Bureau of Educational and Cultural Affairs (ECA) announced that through December 31, 2024, a temporary initiative will allow J-1 bachelors' and masters' students currently enrolled in a STEM field of study to pursue Academic Training for up to 36 months in total. Previously, all J-1 bachelor’s and master’s students were limited to a maximum of 18 months of Academic Training. To be eligible, your degree program as listed on your DS-2019 must be present on the DHS’s STEM Designated Degree Program List . This J-1 STEM AT is available for a total of 36 months or for a period equal to the length of the study program, whichever is shorter . ISEO will consider students eligible for the extension if they are in a STEM field and are in Active J status (either studying under a degree program or on post-completion AT). If currently studying, degree program must be completed by December 2024. ISEO cannot guarantee the additional STEM AT since approval for the extension must be requested directly from the U.S. Department of State. If you are interested in J-1 STEM AT, please contact ISEO.

To be eligible, your degree program as listed on your DS-2019 must be present on the DHS’s STEM Designated Degree Program List .

This J-1 STEM AT is available for a total of 36 months or for a period equal to the length of the study program, whichever is shorter .

ISEO will consider students eligible for the extension if they are in a STEM field and are in Active J status (either studying under a degree program or on post-completion AT). If currently studying, degree program must be completed by December 2024.

If currently studying, degree program must be completed by December 2024.

ISEO cannot guarantee the additional STEM AT since approval for the extension must be requested directly from the U.S. Department of State.

If you are interested in J-1 STEM AT, please contact ISEO.

Application Timeline

Undergraduate students/EAP/GE students: Completion date is the last day of the quarter

Graduate (Master's or PhD) students : The last day of enrollment in their final graduating quarter, OR The last day of eligible on-campus employment as outlined by GEPA , OR If required to pay filing fee, date of Comprehensive Exam/Thesis Defense

The last day of enrollment in their final graduating quarter, OR

The last day of eligible on-campus employment as outlined by GEPA , OR

If required to pay filing fee, date of Comprehensive Exam/Thesis Defense

IMPORTANT! J-1 SEVIS records automatically change to Inactive status the day after the DS-2019 end date. In order to be eligible for Post-Completion Academic Training, you must submit your application to ISEO a minimum of 10 business days (2 weeks) before your program completion date and before your DS-2019 program end date in order to extend it in a timely manner. Applications submitted after the DS-2019 program end date will not be considered.

Step 1: Compile your Academic Training Application

Application Materials at a Glance

Application Materials at a Glance

Pre-Completion AT

Post-Completion AT

Job offer letter Enrollment in an internship course Summer enrollment required for undergraduate students Summer enrollment not required for graduate students

Job offer letter

Enrollment in an internship course Summer enrollment required for undergraduate students Summer enrollment not required for graduate students

Summer enrollment required for undergraduate students

Summer enrollment not required for graduate students

Job offer letter "Post-Completion Academic Training Administrative Processing Fee" payment confirmation Evidence of Health Insurance Confirmation Form Proof of Financial Support

Job offer letter

"Post-Completion Academic Training Administrative Processing Fee" payment confirmation

Evidence of Health Insurance Confirmation Form

Proof of Financial Support

Pre-Completion AT Application Materials:

Company logo / letterhead

Description, goals, and objectives of the training program

Name and address of training supervisor

Number of hours per week

Dates of the training If AT will take place entirely during the Winter or Spring break, you must enroll in an internship course in either the preceding or following quarter.

If AT will take place entirely during the Winter or Spring break, you must enroll in an internship course in either the preceding or following quarter.

ISEO Letters: Letter from ISEO to your employer requesting a job offer letter Sample job offer letter for Academic Training

Letter from ISEO to your employer requesting a job offer letter

Sample job offer letter for Academic Training

Typical course numbers for undergraduates are: 191, 196, 197, 198 or 199

Typical course numbers for graduate students are: 291, 297, 298, or 299

Note : Graduate students are not required to enroll in internship units during the summer, but they are required to complete the Academic Training Completion Request in iServices by the first day of the Fall Quarter.

Post-Completion AT Application Materials:

Company logo / letterhead

Description, goals, and objectives of the training program

Name and address of training supervisor

Number of hours per week

Dates of the training Employment start date must be within 30 days of completing your program.

Employment start date must be within 30 days of completing your program.

ISEO Letters: Letter from ISEO to your employer requesting a job offer letter Sample job offer letter for Academic Training

Letter from ISEO to your employer requesting a job offer letter

Sample job offer letter for Academic Training

A credit card processing fee may apply. Fees subject to change without prior notification.

For students who have not been offered a Postdoctoral Scholar position at UC San Diego for your Post-Completion AT period, submit payment for AT Administrative Processing fee.

For students who have accepted a Postdoctoral Scholar position at UC San Diego for your Post-Completion AT, your department will pay the fee for you. Please direct your hiring department to Employing International Students for instructions for how to complete this fee payment on the postdoc's behalf.

Note : If requesting post-completion AT authorization for multiple employers at the same time , the Post-Completion Academic Training Administrative Processing Fee must only be paid once .

Proof of either Garnett-Powers & Associates (Gallagher) insurance coverage OR waiver approval will be collected after beginning Post-Completion AT.

Funding requirements are equal to the living expenses found on our DS-2019 Funding Requirements webpage.

If your Post-Completion AT employer is unpaid or does not meet the funding requirements, you may also provide a current bank statement or financial support letter from your sponsor.

Step 2: Pay the Post-Completion Academic Training Administrative Processing Fee

The Post-Completion AT Administrative Processing Fee is a payment required for ISEO to comply with mandatory federal regulations and maintain U.S. Department of Homeland Security systems for J-1 SEVIS records while students are no longer enrolled at UC San Diego. J-1 students must pay this fee per Academic Training (AT). Note that there is no Processing Fee for Pre-Completion AT.

The Post-Completion AT Administrative Processing Fee is $150.00

An additional $4.12 service fee may apply.

Fees subject to change without prior notification.

The fee is a non-refundable except in cases where ISEO is unable to recommend the AT due to student ineligibility.

Any refunds will be minus credit card service fees.

If you do not have a Postdoctoral Scholar offer at UC San Diego for your AT period:

If you have accepted a Postdoctoral Scholar position at UC San Diego for your AT period:

Step 3: Submit your Academic Training Request to ISEO

Submit an Academic Training DS-2019 Request in iServices :

Find the Working in the U.S. category in the left menu.

For Pre -Completion AT - Select Pre-Completion Academic Training Requests . Choose the Pre-Completion Academic Training DS-2019 Request option according to your degree level. Prepare a PDF copy of your job offer letter . NOTE: This request will first be sent to your department (undergraduates and graduates) or program coordinator (non-degree) for review, reflected as 'Routed to Third Party' status. Upon approval, it will then be forwarded to ISEO for review, indicated as 'Pending Office Approval' status.

Choose the Pre-Completion Academic Training DS-2019 Request option according to your degree level.

Prepare a PDF copy of your job offer letter .

NOTE: This request will first be sent to your department (undergraduates and graduates) or program coordinator (non-degree) for review, reflected as 'Routed to Third Party' status. Upon approval, it will then be forwarded to ISEO for review, indicated as 'Pending Office Approval' status.

For Post -Completion AT - Select Post-Completion Academic Training Requests . Choose the Post-Completion Academic Training DS-2019 Request option according to your degree level. Prepare a PDF copy of: Your job offer letter . Payment confirmation for the Post-Completion ​Employment ​Administrative ​Processing ​Fee. Bank statement(s) or financial support letter(s) . Evidence of Health Insurance Confirmation . NOTE: This request will first be sent to your college (undergraduates), department (graduates), or program coordinator (non-degree) for review, reflected as 'Routed to Third Party' status. Upon approval, it will then be forwarded to ISEO for review, indicated as 'Pending Office Approval' status.

Choose the Post-Completion Academic Training DS-2019 Request option according to your degree level.

Prepare a PDF copy of: Your job offer letter . Payment confirmation for the Post-Completion ​Employment ​Administrative ​Processing ​Fee. Bank statement(s) or financial support letter(s) . Evidence of Health Insurance Confirmation .

Your job offer letter .

Payment confirmation for the Post-Completion ​Employment ​Administrative ​Processing ​Fee.

Bank statement(s) or financial support letter(s) .

Evidence of Health Insurance Confirmation .

NOTE: This request will first be sent to your college (undergraduates), department (graduates), or program coordinator (non-degree) for review, reflected as 'Routed to Third Party' status. Upon approval, it will then be forwarded to ISEO for review, indicated as 'Pending Office Approval' status.

Submit all of the required eForms. You will receive a confirmation email when your request has been successfully submitted.

ISEO has an average processing time of 10 business days . You will be notified via email when your request is complete.

You may begin employment after you receive your updated DS-2019 and Employer Verification Letter. Show your updated DS-2019 and Employment Verification Letter to your employer to verify your work authorization in the U.S.

Which iServices Request Should I Submit?

Which iServices Request Should I Submit?

Pre-Completion Academic Training DS-2019 Request

Post-Completion Academic Training DS-2019 Request

Select if participating in Academic Training before your graduation or program completion.

Select if participating in Academic Training before your graduation or program completion.

Select if participating in Academic Training after your graduation or program completion.

Select if participating in Academic Training after your graduation or program completion.

Step 4: Submit the Verification Request within 30 Days of Employment Start Date

Within 30 days of the start date of your employment, submit the Academic Training Verification Request in iServices to remain in compliance with the J-1 regulations.

Find the Working in the U.S. category in the left menu. Select Pre-Completion Academic Training Requests or Pre-Completion Academic Training Requests depending on what you have been approved for. Choose the Academic Training Verification Request option.

Select Pre-Completion Academic Training Requests or Pre-Completion Academic Training Requests depending on what you have been approved for.

Choose the Academic Training Verification Request option.

You will be required to: Verify your employment start date and employer address. Verify your address is correct in Tritonlink. You are required to update your address within 10 days of any change. Upload verification of adequate health insurance (for post-completion AT only, see chart below). Note: Students must have health insurance at all times. For example, if your UC Student Health Insurance Plan (UC SHIP) coverage ends today, your new non-UC SHIP coverage needs to begin tomorrow.

Verify your employment start date and employer address.

Verify your address is correct in Tritonlink. You are required to update your address within 10 days of any change.

Upload verification of adequate health insurance (for post-completion AT only, see chart below). Note: Students must have health insurance at all times. For example, if your UC Student Health Insurance Plan (UC SHIP) coverage ends today, your new non-UC SHIP coverage needs to begin tomorrow.

Note: Students must have health insurance at all times. For example, if your UC Student Health Insurance Plan (UC SHIP) coverage ends today, your new non-UC SHIP coverage needs to begin tomorrow.

You will receive a confirmation email when your request has been successfully submitted.

ISEO has an average processing time of 10 business days . You will be notified via email when your request is complete!

Post-Completion AT Health Insurance Verification

Post-Completion AT Health Insurance Verification

To comply with J-1 health insurance requirements, you must upload either: Proof of Gallagher coverage OR Proof of Gallagher waiver approval You will notice terminology like, “visiting scholar,” and “waive the UC San Diego Visiting Scholar Benefit Plan.” This waiver process is primarily used for visiting scholars. However, your use of this service as a student applying for post-completion AT is permitted.

To comply with J-1 health insurance requirements, you must upload either: Proof of Gallagher coverage OR Proof of Gallagher waiver approval

Proof of Gallagher coverage OR

Proof of Gallagher waiver approval

You will notice terminology like, “visiting scholar,” and “waive the UC San Diego Visiting Scholar Benefit Plan.” This waiver process is primarily used for visiting scholars. However, your use of this service as a student applying for post-completion AT is permitted.

Option 1 : Students may purchase health insurance from Gallagher and submit proof of coverage. Coverage details and dates of coverage must be specified.

To do so, follow these steps: Go to the UCSD Visiting Visiting Scholar Benefit Plan Portal . Select "Begin Enrollment." After applying for insurance, Gallagher will directly contact ISEO to confirm that you are a J-1 student. After receiving ISEO confirmation, Gallagher will email you confirmation of your insurance coverage. You will submit this document in the Academic Training Verification Request in iServices .

To do so, follow these steps:

Go to the UCSD Visiting Visiting Scholar Benefit Plan Portal .

Select "Begin Enrollment."

After applying for insurance, Gallagher will directly contact ISEO to confirm that you are a J-1 student.

After receiving ISEO confirmation, Gallagher will email you confirmation of your insurance coverage. You will submit this document in the Academic Training Verification Request in iServices .

Option 2 : Student may purchase insurance from a different provider, but must have the plan reviewed by Gallagher and receive a 'waiver' to make sure it meets the Department of States' minimum insurance requirements.

To do so, follow these steps: Go to the UCSD Visiting Visiting Scholar Benefit Plan Portal . Select "Waive Coverage." Complete the checklist. If your insurance meets the requirements, you will be directed to "Create Waiver Login Account." Create your Waiver Login Account and follow instructions for submitting your insurance policy for review. You will receive a "Waiver Application" email with a confirmation of satisfactory coverage - submit this document in the Academic Training Verification Request in iServices .

To do so, follow these steps:

Go to the UCSD Visiting Visiting Scholar Benefit Plan Portal .

Select "Waive Coverage."

Complete the checklist. If your insurance meets the requirements, you will be directed to "Create Waiver Login Account."

Create your Waiver Login Account and follow instructions for submitting your insurance policy for review.

You will receive a "Waiver Application" email with a confirmation of satisfactory coverage - submit this document in the Academic Training Verification Request in iServices .

Step 5: Submit Completion Request AFTER Completing Academic Training

All students are required to submit the Academic Training Completion Request in iServices within 30 days of completing Academic Training.

Find the Working in the U.S. category in the left menu. Select Pre-Completion Academic Training Requests or Pre-Completion Academic Training Requests depending on what you have been approved for. Choose the Academic Training Completion Request option.

Select Pre-Completion Academic Training Requests or Pre-Completion Academic Training Requests depending on what you have been approved for.

Choose the Academic Training Completion Request option.

You will be asked to provide feedback on your Academic Training experience. The information you provide will NOT be shared with the employer.

You will receive a confirmation email when your request has been successfully submitted.

ISEO has an average processing time of 10 business days . You will be notified via email when your request is complete!

Extending or Updating Pre-Completion Academic Training

Extending or Updating Pre-Completion Academic Training

If you need authorization for a new AT employer or for extending your current AT employer into the next quarter, please submit a new Pre-Completion Academic Training request. Students may need to update or extend an approved Pre-Completion Academic Training (AT) DS-2019 in the current quarter for the following reasons:

Extending Current Employer within Current Term Update AT Employer Name Update AT Employer Physical Address Cancel AT Shorten AT Change AT Employment Start Date

Extending Current Employer within Current Term

Update AT Employer Name

Update AT Employer Physical Address

Change AT Employment Start Date

Submit an Academic Training DS-2019 Request in iServices :

Find the Working in the U.S. category in the left menu.

Select Pre-Completion Academic Training Requests . Choose the Pre-Completion Academic Training Amendment Request option.

Choose the Pre-Completion Academic Training Amendment Request option.

Prepare a PDF copy of your job offer letter .

You will receive a confirmation email when your request has been successfully submitted.

ISEO has an average processing time of 10 business days . You will be notified via email when your request is complete.

Extending or Updating Post-Completion Academic Training

Updating Post-Completion Academic Training

Students who need to update an approved Post-Completion Academic Training (AT) DS-2019 for the following reasons:

Update AT Employer Name Update AT Employer Physical Address Cancel AT Shorten AT

Update AT Employer Name

Update AT Employer Physical Address

Submit an Academic Training DS-2019 Request in iServices :

Find the Working in the U.S. category in the left menu.

Select Post-Completion Academic Training Requests . Choose the Post-Completion Academic Training Amendment Request option.

Choose the Post-Completion Academic Training Amendment Request option.

Prepare a PDF copy of your job offer letter .

You will receive a confirmation email when your request has been successfully submitted.

ISEO has an average processing time of 10 business days . You will be notified via email when your request is complete.

Extending Post-Completion Academic Training

Students who need to add a new post-completion employer or extend a current AT employer need to submit a new Post-Completion Academic Training DS-2019 Request in iServices at least 30 days prior to the current authorization end date. Note: If changing employers while on Post-Completion AT, your next employment start date must be within 30 days of your last employment end date.

Submit a new Post-Completion Academic Training DS-2019 Request in iServices:

Find the Working in the U.S. category in the left menu.

Select Post-Completion Academic Training Requests . Choose the Post-Completion Academic Training DS-2019 Request option according to your degree level. Prepare a PDF copy of: Your job offer letter . Payment confirmation for the Post-Completion ​AT Extension ​Administrative ​Processing ​Fee. Bank statement(s) or financial support letter(s) . Evidence of Health Insurance Confirmation . NOTE: This request will first be sent to your college (undergraduates), department (graduates), or program coordinator (non-degree) for review, reflected as 'Routed to Third Party' status. Upon approval, it will then be forwarded to ISEO for review, indicated as 'Pending Office Approval' status.

Choose the Post-Completion Academic Training DS-2019 Request option according to your degree level.

Prepare a PDF copy of: Your job offer letter . Payment confirmation for the Post-Completion ​AT Extension ​Administrative ​Processing ​Fee. Bank statement(s) or financial support letter(s) . Evidence of Health Insurance Confirmation .

Your job offer letter .

Payment confirmation for the Post-Completion ​AT Extension ​Administrative ​Processing ​Fee.

Bank statement(s) or financial support letter(s) .

Evidence of Health Insurance Confirmation .

NOTE: This request will first be sent to your college (undergraduates), department (graduates), or program coordinator (non-degree) for review, reflected as 'Routed to Third Party' status. Upon approval, it will then be forwarded to ISEO for review, indicated as 'Pending Office Approval' status.

Submit all of the required eForms. You will receive a confirmation email when your request has been successfully submitted.

ISEO has an average processing time of 10 business days . You will be notified via email when your request is complete.

Note : If you have received a recommendation for a waiver of the two-year home residence requirement , you are not eligible for an extension of your DS-2019.

Pay the Post-Completion AT Extension Administrative Processing Fee

Extensions of Post-Completion AT require the payment of the Post-Completion AT Extension Administrative Processing Fee. This is a one-time payment required for ISEO to comply with mandatory federal regulations and maintain U.S. Department of Homeland Security systems for J-1 SEVIS records while students are no longer enrolled at UC San Diego. Note that there is no Processing Fee for Pre-Completion AT Extensions.

The Post-Completion AT Extension Administrative Processing Fee is $475.00

An additional $13.06 service fee may apply.

Fees subject to change without prior notification.

The fee is a non-refundable except in cases where ISEO is unable to recommend the AT due to student ineligibility.

Any refunds will not include any additional service fees that were applied.

If you do not have a Postdoctoral Scholar offer at UC San Diego for your AT period:

If you have accepted a Postdoctoral Scholar position at UC San Diego for your AT period:

Maintaining J-1 Status during AT

Report any Employment Changes to ISEO

SEVIS Reporting Requirements:

While on AT, you are in J-1 student status and must continue to report certain information about your stay. Please contact ISEO within 10 business days if you:

Change your name.

Change your address in the U.S.

Complete your training early.

Enroll in a new degree program or transfer to another academic program.

Decide to return home permanently.

Complete and submit the Academic Training Completion Request in iServices at the end of your Academic Training.

Changing Employers:

If changing employers while on an approved segment of AT, the next start date of employment with your new employer must begin within 30 days of your previous employment end date.

Enrolling in Classes:

Students on post-completion Academic Training are not allowed to pursue a full course of study with a degree or certificate objective. Gaining admission to another school in the U.S. or enrolling full-time will end your Academic Training period because your SEVIS record will be transferred to the new school. However, students can enroll in classes that are incidental or vocational (i.e. a certification program or one or two classes which will not contribute towards a degree) as long as their primary purpose in the U.S. continues to be full-time employment.

Maintain Health Insurance

As a J-1 student, you are required to have adequate health insurance at all times during your stay in the U.S. For example, if your UC Student Health Insurance Plan (UC SHIP) coverage ends today, your new non-UC SHIP coverage needs to begin tomorrow.

You may review our International Student Health Insurance Webpage for the minimum health insurance requirements and for a list of potential alternate insurance companies. Please note that we do not endorse one company over another. It is up to you and your family to decide which company and plan is right for you.

If you will be continuing with AT beyond the end of your UC SHIP coverage, you may purchase health insurance through Gallagher , or purchase your own and obtain a waiver from Gallagher.

Recently graduated students who were covered by UC SHIP during the prior quarter are eligible to enroll in continued UC SHIP coverage for the following quarter.

Social Security Numbers and Taxes

Social Security Number (SSN):

You must have a Social Security number (SSN) to be employed in the U.S. This is not the same as the Campus ID number assigned by UC San Diego. Visit our Social Security page for more information on how to apply.

If you do not have an SSN and need to apply for one, an SSN Support Letter can be included as part of your AT Application Request. Please indicate that you must apply for an SSN when submitting your request in iServices.

Students in J-1 status are exempt from Social Security tax (FICA), however they are generally subject to federal and state income taxes. Tax forms are available from February through April of each year.

Check the Internal Revenue Service website at irs.gov for federal tax information and the CA Franchise Tax Board at ftb.ca.gov for California tax information. For general tax guidance, visit our Taxes website .

Travel while on Post-Completion AT

Students on post-completion Academic Training are still in J-1 student status. To re-enter the U.S., you must have:

Current passport that is valid up to six months after reentry date.

Current DS-2019 with valid travel signature on page 1.

Original Employment Authorization Letter issued by ISEO.

Original job offer letter or verification of employment from employer.

When you receive Post-Completion Academic Training, you are extending your J-1 student status in the U.S. It does not include an extension of your J-1 visa stamp in your passport. Students will need to apply for a J-1 visa renewal if they plan to travel outside of the U.S. and their current visa has expired.

Important Note : Students with expired visas on post-completion Academic Training may find it difficult to renew their J-1 visa for academic training purposes. You are required to establish non-immigrant intent every time you apply for a non-immigrant visa. Contact ISEO before planning a trip abroad while on AT.

Understand your End Date and Grace Period

Students may pursue one of the following options after post-completion Academic Training. Requests must be made at least 10 days before the DS-2019 end date:

Transfer to another school in the U.S. Notify ISEO and request a transfer of your SEVIS record to the new school .

Request to change to a higher degree level program

Changing from J-1 visa status to another status. Notify ISEO by submitting the Ending J-1 Visa Status Request in iServices . Find the Ending your J-1 Visa Status at UC San Diego category in the left menu. Select the Ending J-1 Visa Status Request. Prepare a PDF copy of proof of your adjusted status. You will receive a confirmation email when your request has been successfully submitted. ISEO has an average processing time of 10 business days . You will be notified via email when your request is complete.

Find the Ending your J-1 Visa Status at UC San Diego category in the left menu. Select the Ending J-1 Visa Status Request.

Select the Ending J-1 Visa Status Request.

Prepare a PDF copy of proof of your adjusted status.

You will receive a confirmation email when your request has been successfully submitted.

ISEO has an average processing time of 10 business days . You will be notified via email when your request is complete.

Students completing post-completion Academic Training have a 30-day grace period to remain in the U.S. During this time:

You can remain in the U.S. and make preparations to depart

You cannot work in the U.S. unless you obtain additional employment authorization under another visa status.

Once you depart the U.S., your grace period ends - even if you had time remaining. To re-enter the U.S., you must have a valid visa and visa status that corresponds with your primary purpose in the country.

To re-enter the U.S., you must have a valid visa and visa status that corresponds with your primary purpose in the country.

All students are required to submit the Academic Training Completion Request in iServices within 30 days of completing your Academic Training.

Ending your AT Early

If you plan to withdraw from your post-completion AT with no intention to return to the U.S. to continue employment, submit the Ending J-1 Visa Status Request in iServices .

Find the Ending your J-1 Visa Status at UC San Diego category in the left menu. Select the Ending J-1 Visa Status Request.

Select the Ending J-1 Visa Status Request.

Prepare a PDF copy of your airline ticket or flight itinerary showing the date of your planned departure from the U.S.

You will receive a confirmation email when your request has been successfully submitted.

Your request will be processed right after your departure from the U.S., or within 10 business days if you are already outside the U.S. You will be notified via email when your request is complete.

Working in the U.S.

How to Find Employers

J-1 On-Campus Work

J-1 Academic Training (AT)

J-1 Volunteering and Unpaid Internships

F-1 On-Campus Work

F-1 Off-Campus Work (CPT)

F-1 Optional Practical Training (OPT)

F-1 Volunteering and Unpaid Internships

F-1 Economic Hardship

F-1 International Organizations