Human Papillomavirus (HPV)

Human Papillomavirus (HPV)

HPV is the most common sexually transmitted infection (STI) in the United States, affecting more than 42 million Americans. Almost all sexually active people will be exposed to HPV in their lifetime. HPV is spread through intimate skin-to-skin contact (vaginal, oral, or anal sex) with someone who has the virus, even if they don’t have signs or symptoms.

Some types of HPV are considered low risk with a small chance of causing cancer, while other types are considered high risk. Persistent infection with a high-risk type of HPV can cause cancer in different areas of the body including the cervix, vagina, penis, anus, and oropharynx.

Both low- and high-risk HPV types can affect the cervix. Often these infections are temporary and will clear without intervention; however, persistent infection with a high-risk strain of HPV may develop into precancer or cancer of the cervix. Treatment removes abnormal cells from the cervix. It is important to consider that only a small number of people with high-risk HPV will develop abnormal cervical cells.

Cervical cancer screening (a PAP test) is recommended for people with a cervix starting at age 21-25. After age 25, an HPV test is also done along with the PAP test. At this time, there are no other screening tests available for HPV for people without a cervix. Suspicious lesions on the cervix, vagina, penis, anus, or in the oropharynx can be biopsied. Medical evaluation is necessary to discuss individual testing and treatment options.

HPV that affects the external genitals is considered low-risk and often doesn’t cause symptoms; however, when symptoms do occur, the most common sign is warts in the genital area. These contagious warts are rough, cauliflower-like bumps that grow on the skin or have a skin tag-like appearance. They can appear weeks, months, or years after infection with HPV has occurred. Genital warts may also be itchy and uncomfortable but can be treated by a health care provider or with topical prescription medication. Medical evaluation is recommended to discuss treatment options.

The only way to prevent HPV is to abstain from sex; however, for many people, a more realistic goal is to reduce the risk of contracting HPV while continuing to enjoy a healthy sex life. Reducing risk includes vaccinating against HPV, regular screening and testing, and practicing safe sex with consistent condom use. Free condoms are available through Health Promotion’s Condom Concierge located in the SHS building or by request form.

The HPV vaccine is available at SHS and is administered according to the Centers for Disease Control (CDC) recommendations based on age at first dose in a 2- or 3-dose series. Of note, the HPV vaccine series is most effective when given before a person is exposed to the virus. Learn more about the HPV Vaccine or how to schedule a Nurses’ Clinic vaccination appointment .

Centers for Disease Control – Human Papillomavirus

If you are currently sick or injured and need medical advice, call (858) 534-3300 to speak with a registered nurse who can provide guidance. This service is available 24/7 to all students at no cost. You may also message the nursing team during regular hours via MyStudentChart: Menu > Student Health Ask-a-Nurse.

Advance Directives

Alcohol and Other Drugs

Breast & Testicular Health

Conjunctivitis (Pink Eye)

Eating Disorders

Emergency Contraception

Gastroesophageal Reflux Disease (GERD)

Gynecologic Cancers (PDF)

Hepatitis A, B and C

Human Papillomavirus (HPV)

Medication Abortion

Methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA)

Molluscum Contagiosum

Painful Periods (Dysmenorrhea)

Pelvic Inflammatory Disease (PID)

Physical Activity

Plant Dermatitis

Polycystic Ovary Syndrome (PCOS)

Pregnancy Testing

Temporomandibular Joint Disorders (TMJ)

Urinary Tract Infections (UTIs)

Vaginal Infections