The SHS pharmacy is licensed by the California State Board of Pharmacy and can fill almost all prescriptions, including specialty medications. The pharmacy is located in the Student Health building and is open during regular clinic hours . All registered students can utilize the pharmacy and the benefits are greatest for those with UC SHIP.

The SHS pharmacy can fill a wide range of prescriptions and can provide refills for a 90-day supply, while retail pharmacies are limited to 30 days. SHS can also mail prescriptions along with over-the-counter items to any house or apartment address in California at no additional cost (please allow 2-3 days to receive prescriptions). Call (858) 534-2135 to request this service.

Highly discounted over-the-counter (OTC) items such as cough and cold remedies, first aid supplies, lotions, ointments, contraceptives, and contact lens products are for sale at special student prices. Discounted OTC items are available to all students regardless of insurance and can be purchased at the main pharmacy cashier without a prescription.

OTC Drug Pricing (PDF)

The emergency contraceptive pill (ECP) is also available to all registered students at the SHS pharmacy. The cost for most is approximately $20.00 plus tax or is no charge with a prescription through UC SHIP.

Many pharmacy charges can be billed to the student account and paid at a later date.

Filling Prescriptions

New prescriptions are sent electronically to the SHS Pharmacy from both internal (within UC San Diego Health) and external providers. Students with external providers who want to pick up their medication at SHS should ask their healthcare provider to e-prescribe the medication to UCSD Student Health Services Pharmacy.

There are several ways for patients to fill an existing prescription with the SHS pharmacy:

Self-request prescriptions in MyStudentChart under Medications

Call the pharmacy at (858) 534-2135

SHS staff will reach out via MyStudentChart message if additional information or a provider appointment is needed prior to filling a prescription.

Prescriptions are usually filled in 24-48 hours. Status updates, including delay or pickup notifications, will be sent via text or MyStudentChart message. The pharmacy only calls students if there is a problem with the fill request.

Transferring Prescriptions

To transfer an existing prescription with refills from an outside pharmacy to the SHS Pharmacy, patients can call SHS at (858) 534-2135 during regular hours and provide the name and phone number of the pharmacy and the name or prescription number of the medication. Allow 24 hours to transfer medications to SHS Pharmacy.

Over-the-Counter (OTC) Medications

See the full list of OTC Drug Pricing .

OTC Drug Comparison (Estimate)

Common Brand Names

Acetaminophen 500mg

Tylenol, Paracetamol

Generic Multi-Symptom Cough, Cold & Flu

Tylenol Cold & Flu Severe

UC SHIP Benefits

Students with UC SHIP insurance maximize their pharmacy benefit by using the SHS Pharmacy. Specific UC SHIP copays for prescriptions are available for all covered medications. Most brands of birth control are available at no charge with UC SHIP.

SHS Pharmacy Copay

Retail Pharmacy Copay

Generic formulary

Brand-name formulary

Brand-name non-formulary

For questions regarding the Drug Formulary or a list of medications covered by UC SHIP, please call Optum Member Services at (844) 265-1879. Optum is the UC SHIP carrier for pharmacy benefits. As there may be some availability exceptions, students can also call SHS with questions at (858) 534-2135 to speak with a pharmacy staff member.

Students Without UC SHIP

The SHS pharmacy only accepts UC SHIP insurance, but students without UC SHIP receive 25% off generic and 15% off brand-name prescriptions over $15. Those with private health insurance will pay at the time of their visit and may submit a claim to their insurance company for potential reimbursement. RAFT students with a PCP at SHS will have prescriptions sent to a pharmacy that accepts their insurance.

If you need assistance during regular clinic hours , call (858) 534-2135 to speak with a pharmacy representative.

For after-hours advice, call (858) 534-3300 and choose the option for “Advice Nurse” to speak with a registered nurse who can provide guidance. This service is available 24/7 to all students at no cost regardless of insurance coverage.

Cost of Services

Clinical Laboratory

Gender-Affirming Care

Radiology (X-ray)

Reproductive Health

Travel Clearance