Off-Campus Housing

House Hunting Tips

House Hunting Tips

Finding the right place can take some effort. Here are a few tips and ideas to help you as you search for off-campus housing.

Give yourself enough time

Most rentals around the university become available in June and September

Begin your search 4 to 6 weeks prior to your move-in date, if possible

Contact large apartment complexes more than 6 weeks in advance to get on a wait list

Impress potential landlords and/or roommates

Arrive a little early to show you are responsible and keep commitments

Dress appropriately to show you are clean and neat — no sloppy, stained, or tattered gym clothes

Show your interest by asking questions about the unit and neighborhood

Housemates & roommates

Because of the cost of living in and around La Jolla, chances are you will be sharing space — either a room or house. Here a few key questions to ask potential roommates:

Will you be able to pay the rent on time?

How will we share chores?

What time do you usually go to bed/ wake up?

What's your policy on parties and guests?

Know what you can realistically afford. Remember to budget for:

Rent and security deposit

Utilities, phone, Wi-Fi

Books and school supplies

Commuting expenses — gas, parking, bus pass, etc.

Make sure you feel safe and comfortable in your new place.

Check out the neighborhood at different times of day and night

Decide if you need off-street parking

Be sure windows have working locks

Ask about smoke and carbon monoxide alarms

If sharing, know exactly who has keys to your house

Inspect & photograph

Finding housing is usually a time-sensitive matter, but don’t rush into a lease without an inspection. Inspect the property prior to move-in and photograph any existing damage such as:

Broken or cracked tile/ stairs/ floorboards

Windows that don’t open, don’t close, don’t have screens, or have cracked/ broken panes

Water damage or mold — avoid anyplace that smells of or has mold

Damaged paint, walls, or paneling

Ask repairs be made before you move in, and be sure damaged areas are specified on the lease when you sign it.

Read & understand the rental agreement

The lease or rental agreement is a legal contract. Be sure you understand:

How many months you agree to

When rent is due

Penalties for late rent

Policies on repairs

Security deposit/ pet deposit

Note: Student Legal Services will read the lease with you and help explain the contract and your legal rights. Call for an appointment: (858) 534-4374