Student Services

Working in the U.S.

F-1 Optional Practical Training (OPT)

(This page has a friendly link that's easy to remember: OPT.ucsd.edu )

Optional Practical Training (OPT) is a type of employment authorization for F-1 students. It is an opportunity to pursue a 12-month period of work experience in your major field of study, and can be used for a paid position located on-campus or off-campus. OPT is valid for up to 12 months (with a possibility of extension for STEM majors). During the OPT period, you maintain F-1 student status.

Stage 1: Request OPT I-20 from ISEO

Watch the video below for a quick, helpful overview of Stage 1, which covers the first few steps of the Optional Practical Training (or OPT) application process.

Please Note: iPortal has been replaced with iServices.ucsd.edu effective August 2025.

As a reminder, this video is only an overview. We highly recommend you thoroughly review our website OPT.UCSD.EDU as well as our guides before you apply for OPT.

Step 1: Confirm Your OPT Eligibility

OPT Eligibility:

Pre-Completion OPT

Pre-Completion OPT

Post-Completion OPT

Post-Completion OPT

This type of OPT is used during a students annual vacation and at other times when school is in session OR while school is in session provided that the training does not exceed 20 hours per week. However, it is recommended that students use Curricular Practical Training (CPT) instead of Pre Completion OPT. Learn more about CPT: cpt.ucsd.edu If you choose to pursue pre-completion OPT: Consult with an ISEO Advisor to discuss timeline and Review our Pre-Completion OPT page

This type of OPT is used during a students annual vacation and at other times when school is in session OR while school is in session provided that the training does not exceed 20 hours per week.

However, it is recommended that students use Curricular Practical Training (CPT) instead of Pre Completion OPT. Learn more about CPT: cpt.ucsd.edu

If you choose to pursue pre-completion OPT:

Consult with an ISEO Advisor to discuss timeline and

Review our Pre-Completion OPT page

You must have been lawfully enrolled on a full-time basis for at least one academic year (3 quarters). If you have an approved Reduced Course Load (RCL) for a specific academic term, your enrollment in that term is considered to be full-time for the purposes of this requirement. You must be completing a higher degree level (BA/BS, MA/MBA, PhD) within the next 90 days OR you must not have completed your degree more than 60 days in the past. You must be physically present in the U.S. at the time of application to USCIS . You must not have used more than 1 year of full-time CPT during your current degree program (part-time CPT does not count).

You must have been lawfully enrolled on a full-time basis for at least one academic year (3 quarters). If you have an approved Reduced Course Load (RCL) for a specific academic term, your enrollment in that term is considered to be full-time for the purposes of this requirement.

You must be completing a higher degree level (BA/BS, MA/MBA, PhD) within the next 90 days OR you must not have completed your degree more than 60 days in the past.

You must be physically present in the U.S. at the time of application to USCIS .

You must not have used more than 1 year of full-time CPT during your current degree program (part-time CPT does not count).

Study Abroad Programs:

Time spent in a study abroad program may or may not count toward the academic year requirement. Please be sure you consult an ISEO Advisor to confirm your eligibility if you spent time studying abroad or spent time in another immigration status (e.g. E-2, H-4, etc) or if you are planning to participate in a study abroad program in your final quarter.

Do I need a job to apply for OPT?

When can I apply for STEM OPT?

Step 2: Determine Your OPT Timeline

OPT Application Window:

Students have a limited time window to apply for OPT. USCIS must receive your application for Post-Completion OPT (Form I-765):

No earlier than 90 days before your program end date/expected completion date.

No later than 60 days after your program end date/expected completion date.

No later than 30 days after the “Date Issued” on your OPT I-20.

Determine your OPT application timeline based on your graduating quarter:

OPT application timelines depend on the date each student will complete their program. Students are responsible for determining their own timelines.

Undergraduate Students:

The program end date/expected completion date is generally the last day of their final graduating quarter.

Graduate (Master's or PhD) Students:

The program end date/expected completion date may be different depending on enrollment or employment in their final graduating quarter. They may use whichever of the following dates is the latest: The last day of enrollment in their final graduating quarter, OR The last date of eligible on-campus employment as outlined by GEPA , OR If required to pay filing fee, date of Comprehensive Exam/Thesis Defense.

The last day of enrollment in their final graduating quarter, OR

The last date of eligible on-campus employment as outlined by GEPA , OR

If required to pay filing fee, date of Comprehensive Exam/Thesis Defense.

General OPT application timelines for students enrolled in their final graduating quarter:

Graduating Quarter

Last Day of Quarter (Expected Completion Date**)

Possible OPT Start Date to Request

Earliest Day USCIS Can Receive Application

Last Day USCIS Can Receive Application (USCIS operates on Universal Coordinated Time UTC. Ensure all applications are complete and submitted by 11:59 PM UTC time zone)*

Earliest Day ISEO Can Receive iServices Request

Saturday, Dec 13, 2025

Dec 14, 2025 - Feb 11, 2026

Sunday, Sep 14, 2025

Tuesday, Feb 11, 2026

Sunday, Aug 31, 2025

Saturday, March 21, 2026

March 22, 2026 - May 20, 2026

Sunday, Dec 21, 2025

Wednesday May 20, 2026

Thursday, Dec 11, 2025

Friday, June 12, 2026

June 13, 2026 - Aug 11, 2026

Saturday, March 14, 2026

Tuesday, August 11, 2026

Wednesday, March 4, 2026

Summer Session I 2026

Saturday, August 1, 2026

August 2, 2026 -September 30, 2026

Sunday, May 3, 2026

Wednesday, September 30, 2026

Sunday, April 19, 2026

Summer Session II 2026

Saturday, September 5, 2026

September 6, 2026 - November 4, 2026

Sunday, June 7, 2026

Wednesday, November 4, 2026

Sunday, May 24, 2026

Saturday, December 12, 2026

December 13, 2026 -February 10, 2027

Sunday, September 13, 2026

Wednesday, February 10, 2027

Sunday, August 30, 2026

Saturday, March 20, 2027

March 21, 2027 - May 19, 2027

Sunday, December 20, 2026

Wednesday, May 19, 2027

Sunday, December 6, 2026

Friday, June 11, 2027

June 12, 2027 -August 10, 2027

Saturday, March 13, 2027

Tuesday, August 10, 2027

Saturday, February 27, 2027

*If filing online close to any deadlines, note that USCIS operates on Universal Coordinated Time (UTC). Ensure all applications are complete and submitted before 4:59 PM PST of the current day for it to be considered as submitted on that day.

** Note for Winter graduates: If you intend to apply for H-1B in the future, it is recommended that you choose a start date of April 02 or later in order to be able to work under a Cap-Gap Extension , which is the period of time between the end of the EAD card and the start of the H-1B period (October 1). To be eligible for the Cap-Gap extension, your EAD card must expire on April 1 or later and the H-1B must be filed before the expiration of the EAD card.

How long does it take for USCIS to process my OPT application?

Will USCIS give me my requested OPT start date?

Will USCIS give me a full 12 months of OPT?

I am applying for Permanent Residency. How will OPT impact me?

Step 3: Pay the Post-Completion OPT Administrative Processing Fee

The Post-Completion OPT Administrative Processing Fee is required for ISEO to comply with mandatory federal regulations and maintain U.S. Department of Homeland Security systems for F-1 SEVIS records while students are no longer enrolled at UC San Diego.

The fee is $150.00

An additional $4.12 service fee may apply.

Fees subject to change without prior notification.

The fee is a non-refundable except in cases where ISEO is unable to recommend the OPT due to student ineligibility.

Any refunds will be not include credit card service fees.

This fee is separate from the I-765 application fee that goes to USCIS (as explained in Stage 2 ).

If you do not have a Postdoctoral Scholar offer at UC San Diego for your OPT period:

If you have accepted a Postdoctoral Scholar position at UC San Diego for your OPT period:

Step 4: OPT I-20 Request

Find the Working in the U.S. category in the left menu. Select Initial OPT Requests . Choose the OPT I-20 Request option according to your degree level .

Select Initial OPT Requests .

Choose the OPT I-20 Request option according to your degree level .

Prepare a PDF copy of your ISEO OPT Administrative Processing Fee receipt.

Submit all of the required eForms. You will receive a confirmation email when your request has been successfully submitted. NOTE: This request will first be sent to your college (undergraduates) or department (graduates) for review, reflected as 'Routed to Third Party' status. Upon approval, it will then be forwarded to ISEO for review, indicated as 'Pending Office Approval' status.

NOTE: This request will first be sent to your college (undergraduates) or department (graduates) for review, reflected as 'Routed to Third Party' status. Upon approval, it will then be forwarded to ISEO for review, indicated as 'Pending Office Approval' status.

ISEO has an average processing time of 10 business days . You will be notified via email when your request is complete.

Receive your OPT I-20

Review your OPT I-20 Review the OPT recommendation and requested OPT dates on page 2 of the I-20. Note your new Program End Date . If you are working on campus, your on-campus employment authorization ends on this Program End Date.

Review the OPT recommendation and requested OPT dates on page 2 of the I-20.

Note your new Program End Date . If you are working on campus, your on-campus employment authorization ends on this Program End Date.

Upload your signed OPT I-20 to your OPT application to USCIS (Form I-765) USCIS must receive your complete OPT Application Form I-765) no later than 30 days from the 'Date Issued' on Page 1 of your OPT I-20 or by the end of your 60-day grace period, whichever date is sooner , otherwise your OPT Application will be immediately rejected by USCIS. You should not apply for your OPT I-20 from ISEO until you are ready to submit your OPT Application to USCIS.

USCIS must receive your complete OPT Application Form I-765) no later than 30 days from the 'Date Issued' on Page 1 of your OPT I-20 or by the end of your 60-day grace period, whichever date is sooner , otherwise your OPT Application will be immediately rejected by USCIS. You should not apply for your OPT I-20 from ISEO until you are ready to submit your OPT Application to USCIS.

Can I change my OPT start date?

My OPT application was denied. What should I do?

I missed my 30-day window for USCIS submission. What should I do?

Stage 2: Submit OPT Application (I-765) to USCIS

The video below provides a quick, helpful overview of Stage 2, which covers submitting your OPT application to U.S. Citizenship & Immigration Services, or USCIS. Remember, the OPT stages are sequential. This means you must complete Stage 1 before you complete Stage 2.

Please Note: iPortal has been replaced with iServices.ucsd.edu effective August 2025.

Submit your OPT Application to USCIS

Compile your OPT Application:

Important Reminders:

USCIS must receive your OPT Application no later than 30 days after we issue your OPT I-20 Submit a Invalid OPT I-20 Replacement Request in iServices if you need to restart the 30-day window. USCIS must receive your OPT Application within your 5-month eligibility window: No earlier than 90 days before the end of your program completion date. No later than 60 days after the end of your program completion date. You must be physically present in the U.S. at the time of application to USCIS . If filing online close to any deadlines, note that USCIS operates on Universal Coordinated Time (UTC) which is different than Pacific Standard Time (PST). Ensure all applications are complete and submitted before 11:59 PM UTC of the current day in order for it to be considered as submitted on that day. If you are not sure how to determine the correct due date based on your time zone, please use a Universal Coordinated Time converter. For USCIS form details, including filing tips, direct filing address (paper forms), and instructions, visit the USCIS website .

USCIS must receive your OPT Application no later than 30 days after we issue your OPT I-20 Submit a Invalid OPT I-20 Replacement Request in iServices if you need to restart the 30-day window.

Submit a Invalid OPT I-20 Replacement Request in iServices if you need to restart the 30-day window.

USCIS must receive your OPT Application within your 5-month eligibility window: No earlier than 90 days before the end of your program completion date. No later than 60 days after the end of your program completion date.

No earlier than 90 days before the end of your program completion date.

No later than 60 days after the end of your program completion date.

You must be physically present in the U.S. at the time of application to USCIS .

If filing online close to any deadlines, note that USCIS operates on Universal Coordinated Time (UTC) which is different than Pacific Standard Time (PST). Ensure all applications are complete and submitted before 11:59 PM UTC of the current day in order for it to be considered as submitted on that day. If you are not sure how to determine the correct due date based on your time zone, please use a Universal Coordinated Time converter.

For USCIS form details, including filing tips, direct filing address (paper forms), and instructions, visit the USCIS website .

I-797C Receipt Notice:

USCIS will send a receipt (Form I-797C) within 30 business days confirming they received your application. If you do not receive this notice within 30 business days, contact USCIS Customer Service to confirm your mailing address.

If you do not receive this notice within 30 business days, contact USCIS Customer Service to confirm your mailing address.

Your receipt will have a case number (beginning with three letters followed by 10 numbers). Keep the original receipt for your records. This is the only way you can track your application at the USCIS Service Centers.

Processing Times and Premium Processing Option

USCIS Processing Times:

On average, student's applications are adjudicated within 90-120 days . You can check current general processing times for the Form I-765 on the USCIS Case Processing Times website . You can also use your Receipt Number (found on your I-797C Receipt Notice) to track the status of your specific USCIS application on the USCIS Case Status website .

[SHIFTING USCIS PROCESSING TIMELINES] Despite efforts to provide accurate estimates, it's not uncommon for USCIS timelines to shift. USCIS recalibrates its processing time estimates to reflect current realities and caseloads periodically. Therefore, posted timelines showing time to review (including timelines shown in the USCIS Online Account) are best understood as estimates rather than guarantees. Despite published processing times, note that you may receive a decision sooner or later via a formal notice of action (Form I-797) from USCIS. Students who are eager to receive a start date within 30 business days are encouraged to explore Premium Processing options.

Premium Processing Option:

USCIS offers premium processing for F-1 students seeking optional practical training (OPT) and STEM OPT extensions. Premium processing provides expedited processing services within 30 business days. Premium processing is submitted through Online Filing of USCIS Form I-907 and is available to F-1 students in categories (c)(3)(B), and (c)(3)(C).  Form I-907 can be filed as a part of the I-765 submission, or filed separately after the I-765 has already been submitted. This is a non-refundable fee. Review USCIS premium processing fee and FAQ's for more information.

Can I stay in the U.S. after my grace period ends while my OPT application is pending?

Stage 3: Wait for USCIS Approval

The video below provides a quick, helpful overview of Stage 3, the period when your OPT application is pending with USCIS.

Please Note: iPortal has been replaced with iServices.ucsd.edu effective August 2025.

Biometrics & Photographs

Biometric Services Appointment (If Required)

USCIS may require that you appear for an interview or provide biometrics (fingerprints, photograph , and/or signature) at any time to verify your identity, obtain additional information , and conduct background and security checks, including a check of criminal history records maintained by the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), before making a decision on your application or petition. After USCIS receives your application and ensures it is complete, USCIS will inform you in writing (via USPS mail) or in your online account (if you filed online) if you need to attend a biometric services appointment.

If an appointment is necessary, the notice will provide you with the location of your local or designated USCIS Application Support Center (ASC) and the date and time of your appointment. If you are required to provide biometrics, you must sign an oath at your appointment reaffirming that:

You provided or authorized all information in the application;

You reviewed and understood all the information contained in, and submitted with, your application; and

The information was complete, true , and correct at the time of filing.

If you fail to attend your biometric services appointment, USCIS may deny your application.

We recommend that you review your copy of your completed application before you go to your biometric services appointment at a USCIS ASC . At your appointment, USCIS will permit you to complete the application process only if you are able to confirm, under penalty of perjury, that all the information in your application is complete, true and correct.

Working and Traveling on Pending OPT

Working while your OPT application is pending with USCIS:

You are NOT eligible to: Work on campus past the program end date on Page 1 of your OPT I-20. Work off campus past the CPT end date and program end date on Page 1 of your OPT I-20. Work without receiving pay in a position that should receive payment (different than volunteer opportunities).

Work on campus past the program end date on Page 1 of your OPT I-20.

Work off campus past the CPT end date and program end date on Page 1 of your OPT I-20.

Work without receiving pay in a position that should receive payment (different than volunteer opportunities).

You can: Participate in volunteer opportunities Research industries/companies and apply for employment positions.

Participate in volunteer opportunities

Research industries/companies and apply for employment positions.

Traveling while your OPT application is pending with USCIS:

Traveling before your program end date: Leaving and re-entering the U.S. will change the information on your Form I-94 (Arrival and Departure record). The I-94 submitted in the OPT application would no longer be correct, which may result in an RFE.

Traveling after your program end date: CBP Officers may not allow students entry to the U.S. during or after their 60 day grace period unless they have a physical EAD card showing OPT approval.

If you need to travel outside of the U.S. while your OPT Application is pending with USCIS, talk to an ISEO Advisor .

Request for Further Evidence (RFEs) and Denials

Request for Further Evidence (RFE):

In some cases, USCIS may request additional documentation from you by sending a Request for Further Evidence (RFE). You will also receive an RFE if your application is not complete.

If you receive an RFE, please read the letter thoroughly. USCIS will explain why you are receiving the RFE and what documentation you need to provide. It is important that you reply to the RFE immediately to ensure that your OPT Application is still adjudicated.

Receiving an RFE will delay the processing time.

Denials or Rejections:

If your application has been denied or rejected by USCIS, please conenct with an ISEO Advisor. Email iemployment@ucsd.edu as soon as possible and attach a copy of your rejection letter or denial notice. As always, please also include your PID number in your email.

If your I-765 is denied, the duration of your legal F-1 status reverts to being defined as lasting through the I-20 program end date plus 60 days of grace period. If you are still within the grace period, you may stay in the U.S. for the remainder of the 60 days and you may still have the opportunity to submit a new OPT Application.

Withdrawing your OPT Application or Starting a New Program

Withdrawing/Cancelling your pending OPT Application:

Delays in Completing Academic Program at UC San Diego: To authorize post-completion Optional Practical Training, your I-20 was shortened to reflect your new program end date. If you cannot complete your program on time, you must meet with an ISEO advisor immediately.

Cancelling OPT Application: Students may cancel their application as long as it has not been approved by USCIS. Contact USCIS directly and provide your case number (on your Receipt Notice). All cancellations must be in writing and mailed to USCIS. If you need to cancel your application, please contact ISEO immediately so we can assist you with this process. Once an EAD card is issued, the OPT cannot be cancelled, so please plan accordingly.

Starting a new program at a new institution:

Withdraw your OPT application: If your OPT Application is still pending, it is advised that you withdraw/cancel your application with USCIS. Keep documentation of your withdrawal to show that your intentions changed during the pending decision period of your OPT Application.

Transfer your SEVIS record: Submit a SEVIS Transfer Out Request in iServices . You must begin instruction at your new institution within 5 months of your SEVIS Release Date.

Starting a new program at UC San Diego:

Submit a Change of Level Request: If you want to start a new academic program at UC San Diego while your OPT Application is pending with USCIS, submit a Change of Program Level I-20 Request in iServices . Talk to an ISEO Advisor to learn about the timeline.

I-797 Approval Notice and EAD Card

I-797 Approval Notice

USCIS will usually send an Approval Notice within 90 days after receiving your OPT Application to confirm that your OPT request has been approved. USCIS will then process and mail the Employment Authorization Document (EAD Card).

Keep the Approval Notice for your records.

Employment Authorization Document (EAD Card):

When you receive your EAD card, your employer will request a copy for their records to verify your eligibility to work in the U.S.

There is an error on my EAD Card. What should I do?

I did not receive my EAD card. What should I do?

I did not receive my Social Security Card. What should I do?

Stage 4: Maintain F-1 Status on Approved OPT

Congratulations! You are in the final stage of OPT. The video below provides a quick, helpful overview on how to maintain your F-1 visa status while on OPT.

Please Note: iPortal has been replaced with iServices.ucsd.edu effective August 2025.

OPT Employment and Unemployment Day Limit

OPT Employment Requirements:

OPT employment can be:

Part-time employment (at least 20 hours per week)

Full-time employment

Unpaid employment (Students may work as volunteers or unpaid interns, where this does not violate U.S. labor laws.)

While on OPT, students may work for multiple employers, short-term multiple employers (performing artists), work for hire, self-employed business owner, or employment through an agency. Freelance employment is also allowed. However, all employment must be related to the degree program.

Relation to your Field of Study:

OPT allows for employment in your field of study. If you are an undergraduate student, the employment must related to your major, not your minor. If you are not sure whether the employment offered is in your field of study, you will need to review the curriculum you studied to make sure that the material you learned from your major courses is being used in the position you are being offered.

Students must be prepared to provide evidence of employment and how it relates to the major field of study if requested by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security. Therefore, it is in the best interest of the student to maintain evidence, for each job, of the position held, proof of the duration of that employment, the job title, contact information for the student's supervisor or manager, and a description of the work.

Valid Records of OPT Employment:

Though not required, ISEO highly recommends that students retain records of all reported employment while actively pursuing OPT. Regardless of if you are reporting a paid, unpaid, or volunteer position, we recommend you obtain an offer letter or request a letter from your employer detailing your position, start and end dates, and job duties. In the event you are traveling or need to demonstrate in a future application (such as H-1B or Permanent Residency) how you maintained status during OPT period, these documents will be important. If you are self-employed, volunteering, or interning, you should keep any documentation showing that you were engaged and working in your field of study. This document is not required for SEVP Portal.

Unemployment Day Limit:

During post-completion OPT, maintaining your F-1 status is dependent upon employment. Students may not exceed a cumulative total of 90 days of unemployment during the post-completion OPT period. Unemployment days are counted from the ‘Valid From’ date on your EAD card . Students who exceed 90 days of unemployment are in violation of their F-1 visa status. There is no 60-day grace period after the 90th day of unemployment.

If you are approaching your 90 days of unemployment, you must take one of the following actions:

Transfer your SEVIS Record from UC San Diego to a new institution.

Change from F-1 Status to Another Status .

Depart the U.S. and report your departure date in iServices .

What is an unemployment day?

How do I find a job for OPT?

Report Employment in SEVP Portal

Create your SEVP Portal Account:

On or after your OPT EAD start date (your Start Date printed on your EAD card), you will receive an email to your personal non-UCSD email from do-not-reply.SEVP@ice.dhs.gov to set up your SEVP Portal account .

The subject line of the email will be: “Optional Practical Training Approval – the next step. Create an SEVP Portal account.”

Follow the instructions in the email. Click the link in the email, submit your SEVIS ID, and create a password to set up your user profile.

Report Changes to SEVP Portal:

After you successfully create your SEVP Portal account, submit any of the following updates within 10 days of the change:

Changes to your name

Changes to your address in the U.S.

Changes to your employer or location of employment

Interruptions to your employment

Important note : You do not need to report your employment directly to ISEO; you only need to report your employment in the SEVP Portal. If you do not report your employment OR if you accrue more than 90 days of unemployment, your SEVIS record and OPT will be terminated . If you are changing your non-immigrant status or are no longer continuing to maintain your OPT, you should submit the Termination or Completion of Status Reporting Form.

Help with SEVP Portal:

If you never received an SEVP Portal email, your link expired, you need to change the email address associated with SEVP Portal, or your employment start date is more than 10 days ago and SEVP Portal will not let you update it, submit the request below.

Submit an SEVP Portal Assistance Request in iServices :

Find the Working in the U.S. category in the left menu. Select Initial OPT Requests . Choose the SEVP Portal Assistance Request option.

Select Initial OPT Requests .

Choose the SEVP Portal Assistance Request option.

Prepare a PDF copy of your EAD card.

ISEO has an average processing time of 10 business days . You will be notified via email when your request is complete.

I never received an email to set up SEVP Portal. What should I do?

How can I change the email address that is connected to SEVP Portal?

My employment start date is more than 10 days ago, and SEVP Portal will not let me update it. What should I do?

How can I end my OPT early if I decide to change status or leave the U.S.?

Update your I-20

Submit an Updated OPT I-20 Request in iServices :

Find the Working in the U.S. category in the left menu. Select Initial OPT Requests . Choose the Updated OPT I-20 Request.

Select Initial OPT Requests .

Choose the Updated OPT I-20 Request.

Prepare a PDF copy of your EAD card.

You will receive a confirmation email when your request has been successfully submitted.

ISEO has an average processing time of 10 business days . You will be notified via email when your request is complete.

Travelling on Approved OPT

Students on OPT are still in F-1 student status. To seek re-entry to the U.S., you must have:

Valid passport (must be valid for at least six months after date of entry to the U.S.)

Valid F-1 visa stamp in passport (not expired) Note: Citizens of Canada and Bermuda do not require a visa.

Note: Citizens of Canada and Bermuda do not require a visa.

Valid travel signature on page 2 of Form I-20 (F-1 students ) Note: OPT travel signatures are valid for 6 months .

Note: OPT travel signatures are valid for 6 months .

Original EAD card

Recommended: Original job offer letter or verification of employment from employer

NOTE: Students with expired visas may find it difficult to renew their F-1 visa for practical training purposes. Students on OPT are advised to plan carefully before leaving the U.S. and contact the U.S. Consulate in their home country regarding visa renewal processes .

F-1 Optional Practical Training (OPT)

Cap Gap Extension

Pre-Completion OPT

Frequently Asked Questions