Scholar Services

Travel and Visa Application

Apply for a U.S. Visa

Apply for a U.S. Scholar Visa

Continuing UC San Diego international scholars who are traveling outside the U.S. and have expired visas, or have changed status while in the U.S. must apply for a new visa at a U.S. embassy or consulate abroad in order to reenter the U.S.

Visa Processing Time

Most U.S. visa applications require an in-person interview with a consular officer, as well as additional security and social media vetting. These steps can result in longer processing times.

Do not purchase non-refundable tickets until you have your visa stamp in your passport.

Schedule a Visa Appointment

Gather Documents for Your Visa Interview

Prior to your visa appointment, consult the website for the U.S. embassy or consulate that you will visit. Go to the Nonimmigrant Visa section and follow the instructions. Many people are denied visas when they are unprepared.

As part of the visa application process, you will have to complete a DS-160 application form for the US embassy or consulate. Please consult the U.S. State Department's DS-160 Frequently Asked Questions for more information.

Passport which is valid up to six months after date of entry into the U.S.

PRINTED Form DS-2019 (J-1 scholars) - for visa renewals DS-2019 must also have a valid travel signature

PRINTED Form DS-7002 (required for Student Intern DS-2019 Category only ) The Form DS-7002 is required only for the Student Intern J-1 category. If this category is indicated in box 4 of the Form DS-2019, then the Form DS-7002 must be completed and signed by the prospective Student Intern, the intern's supervisor, and a representative from the UC San Diego International Scholar Office, and brought to the visa application interview.

The Form DS-7002 is required only for the Student Intern J-1 category. If this category is indicated in box 4 of the Form DS-2019, then the Form DS-7002 must be completed and signed by the prospective Student Intern, the intern's supervisor, and a representative from the UC San Diego International Scholar Office, and brought to the visa application interview.

Evidence of financial support

Home country address and documentation of home ties (if available)

UC San Diego appointment letter

H-1B Scholars must present:

Passport which is valid up to six months after date of entry into the U.S.

Original H-1B Approval Notice (Form I-797)

Copy of H-1B petition (I-129 and ETA9035) provided via email when H-1B was approved

ISEO H-1B letter of support provided via email when H-1B was approved

If you were previously in J status and subject to the 212e Two-Year Residency Requirement, bring your I-612 waiver approval or proof of fulfilling the two-year requirement.

Preparing for Your Visa Interview

Based on information received from various consular officers, the following are recommendations to prepare for your visa interview:

Listen carefully to what the consular officer asks you and then answer the question directly.

Be prepared to show strong ties to your home country with official documentation. Ties to your country are ties that compel you to leave the U.S. after you finish your program of study.

If your family owns a property, take the deeds of papers showing your ownership.

If you and your family have had numerous past visits to the U.S., take along passports, even old ones – to show that you have many visas and many visits, but after every visit to U.S. you still returned to your home country.

If you have membership in a professional organization in your home country, bring proof of this membership.

If you have the prospect of a job offer, get a letter from the company saying that you will be considered for the job upon your return

Answer every question truthfully.

Some factors that might work against you in the mind of the consular officer are:

Someone in the U.S. is promising to support you

Lack of family ties

Poor job prospect upon return

Poor English language ability

Read more interview tips:

Things to Remember When Applying for Your Non-Immigrant Visa

Visa Processing Time

The time it will take for the Consular Section to process your visa application can vary depending on:

the completeness of your visa application

the amount of verification your visa application requires can affect the amount of time it takes to process your application

Consular Section may find that you need to provide further information before a decision can be made on your application

If you wish to view the estimate on how long you will have to wait to get an interview appointment, please visit the U.S. Department of State online tool .  This online tool will also tell you how long it will take for your visa to be processed at the Consular Section, after a decision is made by a Consular Officer to issue the Visa. Please note that the processing time does not include any time required for administrative processing.

Visa Delay or Denial

Visa application appointments :

U.S. consulates abroad have huge volumes of visa applications, and certain times of the year, particularly prior to school starting in the fall and during holidays, can be especially busy and result in longer wait times for visa appointments. See wait-times for visa appointments at consulates abroad.

Security checks :

U.S. Department of State screens all visa applicants; a wide variety of background checks exist, and visa applicants are selected for these various checks based on different reasons, including their planned activity in the U.S. (if their research might be considered of dual purpose), their country of origin, their recent travel destinations, or even their name (particularly common names). Once a background check has been instigated, the visa cannot be issued until the check has been completed. This can take a month or more, though federal agencies do try to resolve checks within 30 days.

Delays are not uncommon for scholars arriving from abroad, and usually stem from the visa application process. Scholars are advised to wait to make firm travel plans only after receiving their visa stamp.

If you are delayed, contact your sponsoring department immediately.

For J, B, and TN visas, scholars are required to show non-immigrant intent (that they plan to return to their home country at the end of their stay) to the visa-issuing consular official. To prove this, a scholar may show a deed to real-estate owned in the home country, or a letter from their current employer stating the expectation that they will return to employment there after their stay in the U.S. (see visa denials ). If a scholar is not able to prove this to the satisfaction of the consular official, the visa may be denied. To reapply, the scholar will need to show additional evidence of ties to their home country. While there are other reasons for denial, immigrant intent is the most common one. The H-1B classification allows for immigrant intent, and denials thus are much more rare in this category.

If you are denied a visa, you will be informed of the reason for the denial and be given the opportunity to reappear if you can provide additional evidence to support your case.

Note: Nationals of certain countries, and all internationals whose area of research has been deemed sensitive by the US Department of Homeland Security, will have their names submitted for a special security clearance procedure that may take up to 4-6 weeks before a visa is issued. Disciplines such as nuclear technology, chemical and biotechnology engineering, and advanced computer or microelectronic technology, as well as a broad range of engineering and physical sciences are on the "Technology Alert List." Scholars in these fields should expect delays in obtaining visas at consulates abroad.

Before reapplying, be sure you understand the grounds for your denial so that you can appeal effectively. Contact the International Services and Engagement Office (ISEO) if you need additional assistance.

Applying for a U.S. Visa in a Country Other Than Your Own

Per the U.S. Department of State (effective September 6, 2025), all applicants for nonimmigrant visas (including J-1/J-2, H-1B/H-4) must schedule their visa appointments in their country of nationality or residence .

Key details from the Department of State:

Applicants must be able to show proof of residence in the country where they apply (if applying in their country of residence).

For nationals of countries where the U.S. is not conducting routine visa services, alternative locations have been designated .

Scheduling an appointment in a country other than your nationality or residence may make it harder to qualify for a visa. In such cases, fees will not be refunded or transferred.

Applicants should check embassy and consulate websites for more detailed information about visa application requirements, procedures, and services.

For more information, please refer to the official Department of State announcement .

Travel and Visa Application

Difference Between Status and Visa

Apply for a U.S. Visa

Tips for Your Visa Interview

Visa and Travel Incident Reporting

Travel & Re-Entry

Travel Signature Request Form

Change of Status