Anaphylaxis is a severe, life-threatening allergic reaction that happens when a person’s immune system overreacts to an allergen. The most common causes of anaphylaxis are food allergies, insect stings, medications, and latex. Typically, symptoms begin within 5 to 30 minutes after contact with the allergen, but symptoms can start more than an hour later and sometimes a second wave of symptoms can occur hours or days after the initial symptoms.

Anaphylaxis generally starts with skin symptoms such as hives or itching and quickly progresses to more severe symptoms such as swelling of the lips and/or tongue and wheezing.

Mild anaphylaxis involves skin rash or redness, itching, and hives.

Moderate anaphylaxis is more widespread with extensive symptoms such as a feeling of doom or dread, stomach cramps, diarrhea, nausea, vomiting, increased heart rate, shortness of breath, chest tightness, spreading skin rash and hives, and mild swelling in the lips and/or tongue.

Severe anaphylaxis includes wheezing, difficulty breathing, extensive swelling, dizziness, difficulty swallowing, low blood pressure, feeling faint or confused, and a weak pulse.

The life-threatening stage involves loss of consciousness and cardiac arrest.

People with asthma or those who have previously had allergic reactions are at increased risk for anaphylaxis. Allergic reactions can be unpredictable and can become more severe at any time. People who have had an allergic reaction should have diagnostic testing performed by an allergy specialist to identify triggers.

Epinephrine, a medication which is injected into the large muscle of the upper outer thigh, is the only treatment for anaphylaxis. People with or suspected of having an allergic reaction should seek emergent medical evaluation. Even people who have been prescribed and taught to administer the epinephrine injection themselves are advised to seek immediate medical help. Epinephrine works by quickly reversing symptoms but is short-lived, so even if it relieves the symptoms, further evaluation and treatment may be necessary.

Allergic reactions and anaphylaxis can occur anywhere at any time. Patients with allergies or history of anaphylaxis should:

Carry an epinephrine injector at all times.

Wear a medical bracelet or carry a card identifying the allergy/allergies.

Use the epinephrine injection promptly if contact with the allergen occurs.

Notify all healthcare providers of allergies.

Educate family and friends so they know how to identify symptoms and how to use the Epinephrine injector if needed.

Always seek immediate medical assistance or call 911 when symptoms occur.

Learn more about anaphylaxis from American College of Allergy, Asthma and Immunology and American Academy of Allergy, Asthma and Immunology .

If you are currently sick or injured and need medical advice, call (858) 534-3300 to speak with a registered nurse who can provide guidance. This service is available 24/7 to all students at no cost. You may also message the nursing team during regular hours via MyStudentChart: Menu > Student Health Ask-a-Nurse.

Advance Directives

Alcohol and Other Drugs

Breast & Testicular Health

Conjunctivitis (Pink Eye)

Eating Disorders

Emergency Contraception

Gastroesophageal Reflux Disease (GERD)

Gynecologic Cancers (PDF)

Hepatitis A, B and C

Human Papillomavirus (HPV)

Medication Abortion

Methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA)

Molluscum Contagiosum

Painful Periods (Dysmenorrhea)

Pelvic Inflammatory Disease (PID)

Physical Activity

Plant Dermatitis

Polycystic Ovary Syndrome (PCOS)

Pregnancy Testing

Temporomandibular Joint Disorders (TMJ)

Urinary Tract Infections (UTIs)

Vaginal Infections