Registration Fees

Schedule of Refunds

Schedule of Refunds

Find out if you qualify for a refund if you plan to withdraw from UC San Diego.

If you withdraw from UC San Diego, you may be eligible for a partial or full refund of prepaid fees, depending on the:

Effective date of your departure (to be indicated by your college)

Absence of other University debts

Schedule of refunds

Important Notice:

If you are a first-year, first-time undergraduate or graduate student receiving Title IV financial aid and you withdraw by the end of Week 6 of your first quarter at UC San Diego, the schedule below does not apply to you. You will receive a prorated refund. For the current prorated schedule, please see Schedule A from the UC Office of the President.

The schedule of refunds below:

Applies to the School of Medicine and Skaggs School of Pharmacy and Pharmaceutical Sciences for Fall, Winter, Spring and Summer quarters.

Applies to Undergraduate and Graduate students only for Fall, Winter and Spring quarters. For information about Summer Session refunds, link to the Summer Session Calendar .

Refers to calendar days, beginning with the first day of instruction (Day 1).

Recognizes the "date of withdrawal" as the day you file your withdrawal form. If you claim an earlier date of withdrawal, and therefore a higher refund, you must submit written evidence to your college or the Graduate Division.

Applies to all quarterly registration fees. "Percent of Registration Fees refund" does not apply to Student Health Insurance Plan (SHIP). In certain cases, SHIP may not be refunded.

Schedule of Refunds

Number of days into quarter

36 days and over

Percent of Registration Fees refund

Percent of SHIP refund

2025-2026 Academic Year Schedule of Refunds

Percentage of Registration Fees Refunded

It is the student’s responsibility to contact Student Financial Solutions to request a refund of any eligible credit as a result of university withdrawal. Read more about refund requests and Student Account Refunds .

Important contacts before you decide to withdraw:

Financial Aid & Scholarships Office

Student Financial Solutions

Student Health Service

Graduate Division