How to Declare a Minor (Undergraduates)

How to Declare a Minor (Undergraduates)

If you're an undergraduate and you want to declare a minor, follow the steps below.

Find your Undergraduate Minor Code .

Facts about minors

A minor is a set of courses within a well-defined subject. Examples: African Studies, Philosophy, etc.

Academic departments and programs may offer minors. The requirements must include at least 28 units, including at least 20 upper-division units.

1. Make sure you understand the general university requirements for minors.

Lower-division classes can apply to both your major and your minor.

You can use two upper-division courses (a maximum of eight units) to fulfill the requirements for a minor that have also been used to satisfy the requirements of a major.

You cannot use an upper-division course to satisfy the requirements of more than one minor.

Review Upper Division Course Overlap for additional information.

Read the Academic Senate policy on minors (section E).

2. Check on specific requirements for the minor you've selected.

Read your minor's entry in the General Catalog's courses and curricula section.

If you want to declare a minor that is not in the catalog, check with the department advisor .

Check with your college advisor to see if your college requires a program of concentration and how that would affect your eligibility for declaring a minor.

3. Be aware of department and college approval requirements.

Department approval is required for all requests to declare a minor.

College approval is required if: You have 150 or more total units passed. You are declaring a second minor. You are not in Good Standing.

You have 150 or more total units passed.

You are declaring a second minor.

You are not in Good Standing.

You are required to submit a quarter by quarter plan for any request that requires college approval.

A quarter by quarter plan should begin with the current quarter and list all current and future courses in which you plan to enroll between now and graduation, ensuring that all needed major, minor, GE, and university requirements are included.

4. Complete an Undergraduate Declaration of Minor using the Major/Minor tool .

If you need to change a course in your approved minor, contact the department directly.

Allow 3 to 5 business days if your request only requires department approval. Allow 6 to 10 business days if your request requires both department and college approval.

Office of the Registrar , (858) 534-3144