Alan Pattee Scholarship Act: Tuition Fee Waiver

Other Funding Sources

Alan Pattee Scholarship Act

In 1970 Assembly Bill 338, or the Alan Pattee Scholarship Act, was passed by the California Legislative Session.

Eligibility requirements:

Under this act, an eligible University of California student who is a surviving spouse or surviving child of a deceased person who meets all the following requirements may be eligible for an exemption towards mandatory UC systemwide tuition and fees .

Was a resident of California.

Was employed by a public agency, or was a contractor, or an employee of a contractor, performing services for a public agency.

His or her principle duties consisted of active law enforcement service or active fire suppression and prevention.

Passed away in the performance of active law enforcement or active fire suppression and prevention duties or died as a result of an accident or injury incurred in the performance of those duties.

The surviving spouse or child of contractor, or an employee of a contractor, performing services for a public agency must also:

Be enrolled as an undergraduate student at a UC campus.

Based on the student’s current year FAFSA or California Dream Act Application has an annual income, including the value of support received from the parent, that does not exceed the maximum household income and asset level for a Cal Grant B applicant. Eligibility is determined annually based on the FAFSA or California Dream Act Application results.

Eligibility is determined annually based on the FAFSA or California Dream Act Application results.

If you have additional questions regarding this tuition fee waiver, please contact the Financial Aid and Scholarships Office.

Annually file the FAFSA or California Dream Application AND

Submit the form (PDF) to the Financial Aid and Scholarships Office AND

For the first year provide the Financial Aid and Scholarships Office supporting documentation confirming eligibility including: A copy of the deceased death certificate. A written letter of determination made by a state or local government official with supervisory or other relevant oversight authority of the individual who passed away in the line of duty while serving as a public safety officer. Other third-party documentation that describes or reports the occupation and circumstances of the passing of the parent or guardian.

A copy of the deceased death certificate.

A written letter of determination made by a state or local government official with supervisory or other relevant oversight authority of the individual who passed away in the line of duty while serving as a public safety officer.

Other third-party documentation that describes or reports the occupation and circumstances of the passing of the parent or guardian.

Once awarded you will be sent an email to review the financial aid awards on your Financial Aid and Scholarships (FAS) student portal .

Students continue to be eligible for the waiver based on enrollment and annual income and asset requirements.

How much money can I receive?

Once the documentation is reviewed the Financial Aid and Scholarships Office will work with the Registrar's Office to process the systemwide tuition fee waiver on your student account (this does not apply to UC San Diego Campus fees or other charges posted to your student account).

Please be aware existing financial aid awards (including systemwide fee paying grants and scholarships) may be adjusted to account for the fee waiver.

For more information please see California Education Code 68120

Other Funding Sources

Alan Pattee Scholarship Act

Children of Fallen Heroes

College Corps at UC San Diego

Iraq and Afghanistan Service Grant

Prepaid Educational Savings Plans and Trusts (529, QTP)

Tuition Benefit Plans

Vocational Rehabilitation Funds