Financial Support

Academic Students Employees (ASEs) and Graduate Student Researchers (GSRs)

International Graduate Student Employment:  Teaching Assistants

International Graduate Student Employment:  Teaching Assistants (TAs)

English Language Proficiency Policy for International Teaching Assistants

UC San Diego Division of Graduate Education and Postdoctoral Affairs recognizes the critical role that International Teaching Assistants play on our campus. At the heart of our mission, vision, and core values is our commitment to ensuring our International Teaching Assistants have the necessary communication skills and language support to be successful in the classroom.

In order to serve as a Teaching Assistant for the first time at UCSD, international graduate students whose first language is not English must be certified as having the requisite English language oral communication skills (regardless of year in the program). International graduate students who are appointed as a Teaching Assistant without being certified are subject to having their TA appointment rescinded by the hiring unit or the Division of Graduate Education and Postdoctoral Affairs. This policy does not apply to students who serve as Teaching Assistants in courses conducted in a language other than English .

Evidence of English Language Proficiency: Certification as Teaching Assistant

Students can demonstrate their English language proficiency to serve as a TA through one of the following:

TOEFL (Test of English as a Foreign Language)

IELTS (International English Language Testing System)

PTE (Pearson Test of English)

DET (Duolingo English Test)

For purposes of admission to UC San Diego, international graduate students whose first language is not English may have been exempt from submitting Standardized Language Exam scores if a prior degree (bachelor’s, master’s, or doctoral degree) was earned with a GPA of 3.0 or the equivalent (average grades of B) or better from either:

A regionally accredited US college or university where English is the only medium of instruction OR

A foreign college or university where English is the only medium of instruction.

Students may verify whether their institution meets this requirement by looking up the institution in the IAU World Higher Education Database (WHED)

International graduate students who received this exemption have met the English language proficiency requirements to serve as a Teaching Assistant.

Student has met the English language proficiency requirements to be a TA without further testing or English language training. Student may accept an offer for a TA position.

Pass – Conditional 3.0-3.4

Pass – Conditional

Student has met the requisite English language proficiency requirements to TA but must improve their oral communication skills and/or pronunciation. Student must take an English language course concurrently with their TA assignment. Upon successful completion of the course, the student does not need further testing or English language training. Student may accept an offer for a TA position.

Pass – Provisional 2.5-2.9

Pass – Provisional

Student has partially met the requisite English language proficiency requirements to be a TA but must improve their pronunciation, speech flow, and grammatical accuracy. Student must take an English language course before or concurrently with their TA assignment. Upon successful completion of the course, student will need to test again to verify improved oral communication skills.

Not Pass 0.0-2.4

Student has not met the requisite English language proficiency requirements to be a TA. Student must improve overall oral proficiency and/or pronunciation. Student may not accept an offer as a teaching assistant at this time. Student must retest after they have completed an English language course.

English Language Courses

An international graduate student who receives a “Pass – Conditional”, “Pass – Provisional”, or “Not Pass” on the ELCE may enroll in English language courses offered by the Teaching and Learning Commons at no cost. Alternatively, a student may enroll in an English as a Second Language course offered by UC San Diego’s English Language Institute, a community college, or other institution. Courses offered outside of UCSD must be approved by ELI or TLC in order to be eligible to retest. Funding for such language training must be provided by the student or the student’s academic department.

English Language Certification Exam (ELCE) Procedures

The Teaching + Learning Commons has partnered with the Division of Extended Studies English Language Institute (ELI) to administer the ELCE. For further details on the ELCE, please visit the UCSD English Language Institute website .

Graduate students must coordinate with the hiring unit for their TA position on scheduling the ELCE, and hiring units should direct all questions regarding the ELCE, including scheduling procedures, to the English Language Institute at ip-itaprogram@ucsd.edu .

Contact the Financial Support Unit via the Student Support Portal in Services & Support.

Non Discrimination Statement : In accordance with applicable Federal and State law and University policy, the University of California does not discriminate, or grant preferences, on the basis of race, color, national origin, religion, sex, disability, and/or other protected categories. More information about Proposition 209 can be found here . More information about the University of California Anti-Discrimination Policy can be found here.

Academic Students Employees (ASEs) and Graduate Student Researchers (GSRs)

Academic Student Employees

Types of Academic Student Employment

International Graduate Student Employment:  Teaching Assistants

Fee Payment Information for Academic Student Employees

New Employee Orientation