International Applicant Questions

International Applicant Questions

Does UC San Diego give conditional admission for international students?

No. International students must meet the university’s minimum requirements which may include a passing TOEFL score to be admitted. Please refer to our Admissions Policies for more information.

Does UC San Diego require international applicants to have their transcripts evaluated?

All admitted applicants who have earned a degree(s) from an institution(s) outside of the United States are required to complete and submit a course-by-course evaluation to have their admission finalized. Please select one of the following companies to complete your course-by-course evaluation:

WES Course-by-Course ICAP evaluation

TEC Course-by-Course evaluation

Does UC San Diego require international applicants to upload translated transcripts?

How do I submit my documents if I earned a degree from an institution in China?

You will be required to submit all documents requested for a complete Course-by-Course evaluation. Only admitted students who have earned earned degree(s) from institutions outside of the United States and plan to matriculate to UC San Diego are required to submit a course-by-course evaluation to have their admission finalized. Please select one of the following companies to complete your course-by-course evaluation:

WES Course-by-Course ICAP evaluation

TEC Course-by-Course evaluation

How do I apply for a student visa?

Non Discrimination Statement : In accordance with applicable Federal and State law and University policy, the University of California does not discriminate, or grant preferences, on the basis of race, color, national origin, religion, sex, disability, and/or other protected categories. More information about Proposition 209 can be found here . More information about the University of California Anti-Discrimination Policy can be found here.

General Application Questions

Application Fee Questions

Funding Questions

Test and Scores Questions

Letters of Recommendation Questions

Transcripts Questions

Gender Identity, Sexual Orientation, Ethnicity Questions

International Applicant Questions

Joint Doctoral Program (JDP) Applicant Questions

Undocumented Student Questions

Admitted Student Questions