Student Mail Services

Undergraduate Housing

All letter mail and packages for the Revelle College housing community are handled by the Student Mail team.

Letter mail and packages are distributed to the Revelle Parcel Center and mailboxes within 1-2 days of receiving. During peak periods (i.e. move-in, Black Friday, Cyber Monday, Prime Day, etc.), letter mail and packages may be delayed up to an additional 2 business days.

Please use the information provided below to assist you with all of your Revelle College mail and package needs.

Upon moving in to your on campus residence, you will be assigned a box number. The box number is used to ensure the Student Mail team can properly process your packages and letters. Your lived name and box number must be included in your mailing address. For proper and timely delivery, always use the following format:

*Check your housing portal (QwikPass) or ask your Residential Life Office for your assigned box number.

Parcel Center Location & Hours

Location : The Revelle Parcel Center is located on the first floor of Argo Hall in the Multipurpose Room 118.

Hours : 24/7 Access with Student ID

Please be ready to present your Student ID and box number!

Mailbox Location & Combinations

Location : Revelle mailboxes are located on the first floor of Argo Hall, across from the Revelle Parcel Center.

Hours : 24/7 Access

Please contact the Revelle Residence Life Office for your mailbox information.

How to Pick Up a Package at Revelle

Receive an email from studentmail@ucsd.edu.

Visit the lockers at the Revelle Parcel Center.

Swipe your ID, scan the QR code, or enter the PIN provided in your email at the locker bank.

Receive package.

How to Open Your Mailbox at Revelle

Turn LEFT 3 times and stop at the 1st number.

Turn RIGHT one full turn and stop at the 2nd number.

Turn LEFT to the 3rd number. Pull to open!

NOTE: Locks may need to be pulled to the right slightly after 3rd number to open.

Students can send outgoing packages and letter mail at The Trove , located on Library Walk. The Trove is a full-service postal annex for all of your shipping and mailing needs. At The Trove, you can ship packages, purchase stamps or shipping supplies, and drop off prepaid USPS, UPS, or FedEx packages.

thetrove.ucsd.edu

Student Mail Resources

We’re here for you! Check out our resources for step-by-step guides, frequently asked questions, and mail policies.