Living On Campus

Undergrad Neighborhoods

HDH Undergraduate Neighborhoods

Rita Atkinson Residences

Rita Atkinson FAQ

Rita Atkinson Residences

The Rita Atkinson Apartments are in a beautiful multi-story building with a min-gym, welcome lobby and relaxing outdoor courtyard. It is located near the UC San Diego School of Medicine within walking distance of the Club Med Cafe, shopping and restaurants, and features mini-double rooms with limited single rooms available. Apartments consist of singles and mini-doubles.

Room Previews (pdf)

Neighborhood Map: Interactive Map Location PDF version

Interactive Map Location

Residential Life Office

Hours of Operation:

Monday to Friday 8:00 AM - 4:00 PM

Keys and Lock Outs

Lockout assistance is available at the Rita Atkinson Front Desk during business hours:

Monday to Friday 8:00 AM - 10:00 PM

Saturday & Sunday 9:00 AM - 10:00 PM

For lockout assistance after hours please contact the FixIt! Hotline at 858.534.2600.

Mail and Packages

Hours of Operation:

Monday to Friday 10:00 AM - 9:00 PM

Saturday & Sunday 9:00 AM - 9:00 PM

Packages and Parcels

Rita Residents may pick up packages at the Rita Atkinson Front Desk located at the 2nd floor lobby.

Please be prepared to show campus ID or some other form of photo verification, along with your PO box number.

Packages and parcels can be picked up during business hours 7 days a week. You will be notified via email from Student Mail Services that your package is ready for pick up at the Rita Mailroom. Please note that some notifications are sent prior to delivery, so we suggest waiting several hours before coming to the mailroom to collect your package.

If you have not received an email from Student Mail Services, your package is not ready to be picked up.

SCL “Shipment Tracking Tool”

Residents can use this portal to track packages that have been scanned and received by Student Mail Services. Use your Single Sign-On credentials to log into and track packages. Please note that it takes 1-2 business days for packages to appear.

In order to receive mail and packages, please use the following address format:

# _ _ _ _ _ (mailbox #)

La Jolla, Ca 92092- _ _ _ _ (Last four numbers of mailbox)

Letter mail can be collected from the mailboxes outside of the Residence Life office. Information about mailbox combinations is emailed to residents at the start of Fall Quarter by the ResLife Office.

Mailbox combination instructions can be found on the Student Mail Website

Sample Building Layouts

Sample layouts only. Configurations and spaces vary by facility.

Rita Mini-Double

Trash Disposal and Recycling

Trash chutes are located on each floor near the elevator.

Located on 4th floor

All information regarding laundry machine usage can be found here:

https://hdhughousing.ucsd.edu/living-on-campus/services/laundry.html

Equipment Check-Out

Located at the ResLife Office

Equipment Available for Check Out

Cleaning Kit & Vacuum

Game room equipment (PS5 controllers, ping pong set, lobby game table equipment)

Common areas are only reservable by ResLife staff

Located on the 2nd floor.

Located outside the ground floor North entrance.

Located on the 3rd floor.

Located on the 4th floor.

Located on the 4th floor.

9th Floor Conference Room

Rita Atkinson Residences

Rita Atkinson FAQ