Prospective Students

Why Choose UC San Diego

Why Choose UC San Diego?

Because you Belong

There are so many reasons why graduate students decide to enroll at UC San Diego - from world renowned programs to world renowned beaches. We think you belong here and we hope you will decide to make this place your home.

Unlike other institutions, UC San Diego was established through cutting-edge graduate teaching and research from the beginning, so we could attract the very best scholars. And they came.

Prominent faculty and top-ranked programs

16 Nobel laureates have taught on campus

163 Memberships held by current and emeriti faculty in National Academy of Sciences (85), National Academy of Engineering (32) and National Academy of Medicine (46).

Graduate programs at UC San Diego continue to rank highly as noted in the “America’s Best Graduate Schools” 2021 guidebook, released by U.S. News Media Group, publishers of U.S. News & World Report. More than 20 programs at UC San Diego rank in the top 25 nationwide.

In 2020, The Hollywood Reporter ranked UC San Diego’s Department of Theatre and Dance 4th in the nation among drama schools.

Foreign Policy Magazine's 2018 global rankings lauded UC San Diego for its master’s program for policy careers in international relations, ranked 15th best around the world. The campus’s Ph.D. program was named the best among public colleges for students pursuing an academic career in international relations.

More than 30 campus structures are equipped with solar panels and three dozen buildings are LEED certified ; wireless sensors are situated across campus to determine the best time to gain and expend energy; and more than half of the campus community utilizes alternative transportation.

In 2018 UC San Diego was ranked 1st nationally among “Top 10 Surf Colleges” by Surfer Magazine. Criteria included high academic standards, notable alumni as well as access to high quality surf. UC San Diego’s surf team has won six national championships.

UC San Diego’s Geisel Library is the world’s largest repository of the original work of Theodor Geisel (Dr. Seuss) , holding more than 10,000 original drawings, sketches, books and other memorabilia. The UC San Diego Library is currently observing its 50th anniversary with a planned yearlong celebration aimed at recognizing the remarkable legacy of Geisel Library, UC San Diego’s most iconic architectural masterpiece.

The San Diego region has more than 1,100 life science companies and more than 80 research institutes , per the San Diego Regional Economic Development Corporation. The life science sector in San Diego, alone, employs more than 42,000 people.

Resources, Innovation, and Impact

Fiscal year 2018-19 revenues totaled $5.4 billion ; 20% of this total is revenue from contracts and grants, most of which is from the federal government for research.

UC San Diego generates more than 400 inventions and 250 patents each year . It also spins off more than 50 companies annually, driving the economic growth of the San Diego region.

UC San Diego was named 13th best research university in the nation and 40th best college in the world by the Centre for Science and Technology Studies of Leiden University in their 2020 report that measured scientific impact of universities worldwide.

More than 1,000 companies utilize, or have utilized, technology created at UC San Diego

UC San Diego received $1.35 billion in sponsored research support for FY2019 (July 1-June 30). The university reached a new milestone for the fourth consecutive year.

Valuing Diversity

The Bouchet Honor Society at UC San Diego seeks to develop a network of preeminent scholars who exemplify academic and personal excellence, foster environments of support and serve as examples of scholarship, leadership, character, service and advocacy for students who have been traditionally underrepresented in the academy. In the spirit of Bouchet’s commitment to these pursuits both within and without the academic realm, inductees into the honor society bearing his name should also exhibit these qualities.

UC San Diego is a diverse and supportive community. The Campus Community Centers are open to all members for the UC San Diego Community. By understanding and appreciating our diverse histories and experiences, we have found common connections that bring us together to create strong communities. Asian Pacific Islander Middle Eastern DESI American Programs & Services Black Resource Center Cross-Cultural Center Intertribal Resource Center Lesbian Gay Bisexual Transgender Resource Center Raza Resource Centro Women’s Center

Asian Pacific Islander Middle Eastern DESI American Programs & Services

Black Resource Center

Cross-Cultural Center

Intertribal Resource Center

Lesbian Gay Bisexual Transgender Resource Center

Raza Resource Centro

UC San Diego was named the 9th best public university in the nation for LGBTQ+ students according to a new ranking by Campus Pride in partnership with BestColleges.

Graduate students come from all over the world to study at UC San Diego and represent 82 countries. Additionally, graduate students come from all over the United States and represent most continental states and Puerto Rico.

Explore our Campus Profile for the most up-to-date numbers on graduate and professional students.

8,641 Total graduate and professional students

3,648 Doctoral students

3,144 Masters students

907 Clinical residents

796 MD and pharmacy students

Non Discrimination Statement : In accordance with applicable Federal and State law and University policy, the University of California does not discriminate, or grant preferences, on the basis of race, color, national origin, religion, sex, disability, and/or other protected categories. More information about Proposition 209 can be found here . More information about the University of California Anti-Discrimination Policy can be found here.

Prospective Students

Why Choose UC San Diego

Request Information

Research Experiences