Student Services

Changes to Enrollment

Visa Status Violations

F-1/J-1 Visa Status Violations

The International Services and Engagement Office is required to terminate F and J SEVIS records for a number of different reasons. Termination of a SEVIS record may take place because the student has departed the United States (U.S.), has obtained a different immigration status, or when a status violation occurs.

Reasons for Termination or Falling Out of Status

Typical reasons for termination or falling out of status include:

Unauthorized withdrawal from classes.

Unauthorized drop below full course of study.

Unauthorized employment.

Suspension or academic disqualification.

Failure to enroll in classes.

Failure to extend prior to the program end date.

Authorized absence from the U.S.

Change of non-immigrant status.

Adjustment to permanent resident status.

Consequences of SEVIS Termination

Once a student's SEVIS Record is terminated, they are no longer eligible for F or J Visa Benefits.

Grace Period: You are no longer eligible for a 60-day grace period and must take action within 15 days of termination.

Travel & Re-Entry: Students whose records are terminated may not use their terminated SEVIS record (I-20 or DS-2019) to travel and re-enter the U.S.

Employment: You may not engage in any type of on-campus employment or off-campus employment. This may also include stipends, fellowships, or any funds paid to you by the university.

Changes to Form I-20/DS-2019: Any additional changes to the Form I-20 or DS-2019 is not permitted on a terminated SEVIS Record, including program extensions, reduced course loads, or change of level.

It is important for you to speak to an International Student Advisor as soon as you learn of your termination to understand impacts to your F-1 or J-1 visa benefits.

Changes to Enrollment

Academic Major Change

Reduced Course Loads (RCLs)

Program Extension

Degree Level Change

Enrollment Outside UC San Diego

Academic Disqualification and Suspension

Visa Status Violations

Regaining Status