Cost of Attendance

Cost of Attendance

UC San Diego is committed to providing a comprehensive financial aid program based on students’ unique financial needs, making it possible for all admitted students to afford the cost of attendance and invest in their futures.

The annual cost of attendance includes estimates for:

Tuition and Fees

Living Expenses (i.e. Food and Housing)

Books, course materials, supplies, and equipment

Miscellaneous Personal Expenses and

Transportation Expenses

Additional costs may include unique program considerations, such as study abroad expenses, costs of obtaining a professional licensure, certification, or a first professional credential. To ensure all necessary funding for your unique program is accounted for in your financial aid package, you may submit a Cost of Attendance Appeal to request an increase in your expected cost of attendance. You can also submit an appeal if you require assistance with other costs, such as dependent care, a computer purchase, or assistance with disability-related expenses.

For more information about the expected annual costs for your program, please select the program below. For definitions of each cost of attendance element visit our Financial Aid Terms webpage.

Cohort Cost of Attendance

The University of California Board of Regents approved a multiyear Tuition Stability Plan on July 22, 2021. The plan helps students and families budget for a UC education by keeping UC tuition stable and predictable and providing new resources for financial aid.

Beginning fall 2022, tuition will be adjusted for each incoming undergraduate class but will subsequently remain flat until the student graduates, for up to six years. For undergraduates who first enrolled in fall 2021 or earlier--including all current undergraduates--tuition will stay flat at current rates for the duration of their enrollment, up to six years. The plan will be up for reauthorization by the Board of Regents in five years.

Select your cohort and tuition year below to help determine how much money you’ll need to attend UC San Diego and how much financial aid you may need to meet that goal. Your actual costs may differ. For more information on each Cost of Attendance element visit our Financial Aid Terms webpage.

Based on three quarters, full-time enrollment status as an undergraduate student, and your estimated financial aid offer, please use the UC San Diego Net Price Calculator to estimate your expected direct costs at UC San Diego.

Costs by Program

Graduate Students

Rady School of Management (RSM)

School of Global Policy and Strategy (GPS)

Other Self-Supporting Programs

Financial Aid & Scholarships

Cost of Attendance Undergraduates Graduate Students Rady School School of Global Policy and Strategy Other Self-Supporting Programs

Graduate Students

School of Global Policy and Strategy

Other Self-Supporting Programs