Undergraduate Students

Filing your financial aid application is the first step to ensuring the best possible financial aid package for which you are eligible.  You will need to submit either the FAFSA or California Dream Act Application to receive a financial aid estimate to help cover the costs of attendance. Review the information available on this page to help you apply each year.

How to Apply for Financial Aid

Use the links below to submit the application that’s best for you. It’s recommended to apply by the priority deadline to secure the best available funding.

The FAFSA - submit this application if you’re a U.S. citizen or an eligible non-citizen (ie, permanent resident). UC San Diego School Code: 001317 File / update your FAFSA Create Your New FSA ID FAFSA INFO

UC San Diego School Code: 001317

File / update your FAFSA

Create Your New FSA ID FAFSA INFO

The California Dream Act Application (CADAA) - submit the CADAA if you are an undocumented student who qualifies for the AB540 fee exemption. UC San Diego School Code: 001317 File / update your CADAA DREAM ACT INFO

UC San Diego School Code: 001317

File / update your CADAA DREAM ACT INFO

UC 2026-27 Priority Filing Deadline The priority deadline for the 2026-27 academic year is March 2, 2026 .

The priority deadline for the 2026-27 academic year is March 2, 2026 .

UC 2025-26 Priority Filing Deadline The priority deadline for the 2025-26 academic year was extended to April 2, 2025 .

The priority deadline for the 2025-26 academic year was extended to April 2, 2025 .

2025-26 If your financial circumstances have changed since you submitted your 2023 income information on the 2025-26 FAFSA or CADAA, you may be eligible to submit a Special Circumstances appeal to UC San Diego. Please visit Forms for details.

If your financial circumstances have changed since you submitted your 2023 income information on the 2025-26 FAFSA or CADAA, you may be eligible to submit a Special Circumstances appeal to UC San Diego. Please visit Forms for details.

2026-27 If your financial circumstances have changed since you submitted your 2024 income information on the 2026-27 FAFSA or CADAA, you may be eligible to submit a Special Circumstances appeal to UC San Diego. The Forms are available late Summer into the Fall quarter.

If your financial circumstances have changed since you submitted your 2024 income information on the 2026-27 FAFSA or CADAA, you may be eligible to submit a Special Circumstances appeal to UC San Diego. The Forms are available late Summer into the Fall quarter.

Financial Aid Basics

Eligibility & Enrollment Requirements - Learn what you need to do to be eligible to receive and keep undergraduate financial aid.

Packaging Policy - Learn how the Financial Aid and Scholarships Office calculates how much financial aid you're eligible to receive, and in what order awards are made.

How You Receive Your Financial Aid - Link to resources that can help you manage your financial aid award.

Timeline - Use this timeline to keep track of important filing deadlines and other events during the year before you enter UC San Diego.

Cost of Attendance - Use this estimated cost of attendance to help decide how much money you'll need to attend UC San Diego and how much financial aid you may need to meet that goal.

Summer Session - Enrolling in the appropriate summer session classes can help you make faster progress toward your degree.

Blue and Gold is the University of California’s commitment to offering financial aid that greatly benefits all California students and provides cost predictability to all students.

Additional Resources

International Students

While International undergraduate students are not eligible for federal aid, other options may be available to help cover educational costs. Check these sources for more information on campus support and resources for international students:

The International Students & Programs Office (ISPO)

Global Education , which provides advice and resources

Finances for international undergraduate students

Outside agency scholarships for international students

Scholarships on FASTWeb , a free online scholarship search

Private Loan Programs

Military-Connected Students

UC San Diego is dedicated to assisting veteran and military-connected students in achieving their higher educational goals. Depending on the type of benefits you are receiving from the Veterans Administration, UC San Diego may offer financial aid that can work in conjunction with your VA benefits.

For more information about using federal and state VA educational benefits at UC San Diego, including contact information for the Veteran Benefits office, please visit the Veterans Benefits website .

Please note: students using both military affiliated benefits and financial aid may experience revisions to their financial aid offer.

Undocumented Students

To be considered for state and institutional aid including grants, need-based scholarships, and university loans, undocumented AB540 eligible students must submit the CA Dream Act Application (CADAA) by the priority filing deadline of March 2 each year for maximum financial aid consideration.

Before submitting the CADAA, be sure that you’ve applied for AB540 status and that your status has been approved.

The Undocumented Student Services Center is available to offer additional support. Center staff are committed to serving our undocumented students and their families through holistic services and strongly advocate for generating a sense of community for all students who are undocumented or come from mixed immigration-status families.

Useful Checklist

FAFSA filers: Create your FSA ID at StudentAid.gov - Your FSA ID is your username and password for your StudentAid.gov account. You and anyone contributing to your online FAFSA form* will need an FSA ID.

Gather the Information You Will Need to Complete the 2026-27 Financial Aid Application You and anyone contributing to your FAFSA or CADAA will need 2024 income tax returns (if eligible to file), records of investments and assets, Social Security Numbers*, child support information (if applicable), and other personal information. Learn more about FAFSA requirements for 2026-27 here .

Talk with your Contributors and Learn About Consent to Direct Data Exchange All contributors must provide consent for Federal Student Aid (FSA) to verify their identity and to access their Federal Tax Information (FTI) from the Internal Revenue Services (IRS) regardless of the 2024 filing status. All contributors will need to answer questions about income and assets as appropriate.

Research and Apply for Scholarships One of the best ways you can spend your time as you await the financial aid application is to research and apply for external scholarships. Scholarship searches and applications do take time, but every scholarship dollar received helps reduce the cost of your education and may minimize the amount of loan you borrow. Note: If you are not yet a UC student, your admissions application will act as your scholarship application for the first academic year. You are still strongly encouraged to apply for external scholarship opportunities in addition to any aid you may be offered by the institution.

Fulfill Institutional Requirements Submitting your FAFSA/CADAA is the first step to financial aid consideration, but your institution may request additional documentation in order to provide a financial aid offer. Please be sure to submit any document requests by your institution's priority deadline to avoid any delays.

Submit your FAFSA or CADAA by the March 2 priority deadline to receive 2025-26 financial aid offers in time to make an informed college choice!

Depending on your financial need, eligibility for certain programs, and other factors, you may qualify for various types of aid. Learn more about: Grants Loans Scholarships Work-Study * Summer Session Study Abroad/Exchange Programs * Undergraduates Only

Depending on your financial need, eligibility for certain programs, and other factors, you may qualify for various types of aid. Learn more about:

Study Abroad/Exchange Programs

Undergraduates Eligibility Requirements Packaging Policy How You Receive Your Financial Aid Financial Aid Timeline - Current Undergrads Financial Aid Timeline - 2026-2027 Prospective Undergrads Hope Scholars

Eligibility Requirements

Packaging Policy

How You Receive Your Financial Aid

Financial Aid Timeline - Current Undergrads

Financial Aid Timeline - 2026-2027 Prospective Undergrads

Graduate Students

Financial Aid Application Tips