Gender Identity, Sexual Orientation, Ethnicity Questions

Gender Identity, Sexual Orientation, Ethnicity Questions

Why does UC San Diego have questions pertaining to gender identity, gender expression, and sexual orientation to the Graduate Application?

On October 8, 2011, California Governor Jerry Brown signed Assembly Bill 620, which includes a request that UC provide the opportunity for students, faculty, and staff to report their sexual orientation, gender identity, and gender expression on any forms used to collect demographic data.

In 2012, then UC President Mark Yudof created and charged the Task Force & Implementation Team on LGBT Climate and Inclusion (LGBT Task Force) with developing priorities, strategies, and expected resource requirements to advance recommendations submitted by the LGBT Working Group of the President’s Advisory Council on Campus Climate and Inclusion. On May 30, 2014, the LGBT Task Force presented a report to UC President Janet Napolitano with a recommendation to implement AB 620.

In September 2014, UC President Janet Napolitano formed the President’s Advisory Council on LGBT+ Students, Faculty, and Staff, which is comprised of faculty, LGBT+ Center staff, students, and community experts. They were charged with making the UC system a gold standard for LGBT+ issues, and to provide recommendations for the implementation of AB 620 by collecting data on gender identity and sexual orientation through the admission application.

UC San Diego does not consider race, color, national origin, religion, sex, disability, and/or other protected categories as part of the application and selection process for admission to graduate programs.

Click here for more FAQs on this subject.

Why do you want to know my ethnicity?

This information is used for statistical purposes only by UC, government agencies, and researchers.  Providing this information is optional, and is not considered when reviewing an application for admission.

UC San Diego does not consider race, color, national origin, religion, sex, disability, and/or other protected categories as part of the application and selection process for admission to graduate programs.

What if I am biracial or multi-ethnic?

You may select and/all categories that apply to you. UC San Diego does not consider race, color, national origin, religion, sex, disability, and/or other protected categories as part of the application and selection process for admission to graduate programs.

Non Discrimination Statement : In accordance with applicable Federal and State law and University policy, the University of California does not discriminate, or grant preferences, on the basis of race, color, national origin, religion, sex, disability, and/or other protected categories. More information about Proposition 209 can be found here . More information about the University of California Anti-Discrimination Policy can be found here.

General Application Questions

Application Fee Questions

Funding Questions

Test and Scores Questions

Letters of Recommendation Questions

Transcripts Questions

Gender Identity, Sexual Orientation, Ethnicity Questions

International Applicant Questions

Joint Doctoral Program (JDP) Applicant Questions

Undocumented Student Questions

Admitted Student Questions