Financial Aid Timeline for Current Undergraduates

Financial Aid Timeline Current Undergraduates

Learn the steps you must take to successfully apply for financial aid, and see important deadlines and details for each step. Use this timeline to keep track of important filing deadlines and other events which begin the year before each new fall quarter begins.

If you're a new financial aid applicant, register for your FSA ID from the Department of Education so you can electronically sign your Free Application for Federal Student Aid ( FAFSA ). You and your parents can both register for an FSA ID.

You may also qualify for outside agency scholarships . Review these lists, follow the application instructions for each scholarship, and add all deadlines to your personal calendar.

The FAFSA and CADAA are scheduled to be available. Make sure to list UC San Diego school code 001317 on the application, so UC San Diego will receive your information. Learn more about the FAFSA . Students who have a Social Security Number must file the Free Application for Federal Student Aid ( FAFSA ). Students should not complete both applications. The Dream Act Application is an application for state and university aid. It is not an application for federal financial aid. The application is for: AB540 eligible students. Students who cannot file the Free Application for Federal Student Aid ( FAFSA ). Students who attended at least three full years in a California public or private high school. Graduated from a California High School or attained the equivalent prior to the start of the college term. If without lawful immigration status, have or will file an affidavit with the college or university they are attending stating that they have filed an application to legalize their immigration status, or will file an application as soon as they are eligible to do so. This affidavit is filed with the college they attend.

Learn more about the FAFSA .

Students who have a Social Security Number must file the Free Application for Federal Student Aid ( FAFSA ). Students should not complete both applications.

The Dream Act Application is an application for state and university aid. It is not an application for federal financial aid. The application is for: AB540 eligible students. Students who cannot file the Free Application for Federal Student Aid ( FAFSA ). Students who attended at least three full years in a California public or private high school. Graduated from a California High School or attained the equivalent prior to the start of the college term. If without lawful immigration status, have or will file an affidavit with the college or university they are attending stating that they have filed an application to legalize their immigration status, or will file an application as soon as they are eligible to do so. This affidavit is filed with the college they attend.

AB540 eligible students.

Students who cannot file the Free Application for Federal Student Aid ( FAFSA ).

Students who attended at least three full years in a California public or private high school.

Graduated from a California High School or attained the equivalent prior to the start of the college term.

If without lawful immigration status, have or will file an affidavit with the college or university they are attending stating that they have filed an application to legalize their immigration status, or will file an application as soon as they are eligible to do so. This affidavit is filed with the college they attend.

FAFSA Filers: Verify Your FAFSA is Complete and Accurate. If you've submitted a FAFSA, confirm that it's complete with the Department of Education. If necessary, correct your FAFSA online. Next, review your FAFSA Submission Summary carefully to ensure: UC San Diego's school code (001317) is included Your personal information (name, date of birth, and Social Security Number) matches exactly with your UC San Diego record with the Registrar’s Office. UC Admissions application If you find any errors, make corrections online as soon as possible to avoid delays in processing your financial aid. Important: If your FAFSA or CADAA indicates you are 'Provisionally Independent', please note that you will still be required to submit a Dependency Appeal to the UC San Diego Financial Aid and Scholarships Office after you've been admitted. This additional step is necessary to verify your dependency status. For guidance on the appeal process and requirements, please contact our office for more information: https://fas.ucsd.edu/contact .

If you've submitted a FAFSA, confirm that it's complete with the Department of Education.

If necessary, correct your FAFSA online.

Next, review your FAFSA Submission Summary carefully to ensure: UC San Diego's school code (001317) is included Your personal information (name, date of birth, and Social Security Number) matches exactly with your UC San Diego record with the Registrar’s Office. UC Admissions application If you find any errors, make corrections online as soon as possible to avoid delays in processing your financial aid.

UC San Diego's school code (001317) is included

Your personal information (name, date of birth, and Social Security Number) matches exactly with your UC San Diego record with the Registrar’s Office. UC Admissions application If you find any errors, make corrections online as soon as possible to avoid delays in processing your financial aid.

If you find any errors, make corrections online as soon as possible to avoid delays in processing your financial aid.

Important: If your FAFSA or CADAA indicates you are 'Provisionally Independent', please note that you will still be required to submit a Dependency Appeal to the UC San Diego Financial Aid and Scholarships Office after you've been admitted. This additional step is necessary to verify your dependency status. For guidance on the appeal process and requirements, please contact our office for more information: https://fas.ucsd.edu/contact .

CADAA filers: Verify that your CADAA is Complete and Accurate. Confirm that you submitted your CADAA application through the California Student Aid Commission (CSAC) website. After submitting your application, wait for an email from CSAC with your unique 9-digit Dream ID number. Check your spam/junk folders if you don't receive the email. Keep your Dream ID number in a secure location, as you'll need it for future reference. Review your CADAA application for accuracy and ensure that UC San Diego's school code (001317) is listed. If you find any errors, make corrections online through the CSAC website. By following these steps, you'll ensure that your CADAA application is complete and accurate, and that you can complete any future financial aid processes.

Confirm that you submitted your CADAA application through the California Student Aid Commission (CSAC) website.

After submitting your application, wait for an email from CSAC with your unique 9-digit Dream ID number. Check your spam/junk folders if you don't receive the email. Keep your Dream ID number in a secure location, as you'll need it for future reference. Review your CADAA application for accuracy and ensure that UC San Diego's school code (001317) is listed. If you find any errors, make corrections online through the CSAC website.

wait for an email from CSAC with your unique 9-digit Dream ID number.

Check your spam/junk folders if you don't receive the email. Keep your Dream ID number in a secure location, as you'll need it for future reference.

Review your CADAA application for accuracy and ensure that UC San Diego's school code (001317) is listed. If you find any errors, make corrections online through the CSAC website.

If you find any errors, make corrections online through the CSAC website.

By following these steps, you'll ensure that your CADAA application is complete and accurate, and that you can complete any future financial aid processes.

Use the Financial Aid tool to access next year's Continuing Student and Summer Undergraduate Research Scholarships (URS) Application. With this one online application you'll be considered for all merit awards, all financial need awards (if a financial aid recipient), all restricted awards, and all summer research awards for which you are eligible.

Use the Financial Aid tool to access next year's Continuing Student and Summer Undergraduate Research Scholarships (URS) Application. With this one online application you'll be considered for all merit awards, all financial need awards (if a financial aid recipient), all restricted awards, and all summer research awards for which you are eligible.

UC San Diego Continuing Undergraduate Scholarships available. Visit Scholarships for Continuing Undergraduate Students for more information.

In addition to UC San Diego scholarships, you may qualify for national competitive scholarships and outside agency scholarships . Review these lists often for new entries, and add the scholarship deadline dates to your personal calendar. Carefully follow the instructions listed for each scholarship.

March 2 Deadline: FAFSA deadline March 2 midnight Central Daylight Time: Submit your FAFSA online to be considered for priority financial aid. If you're mailing your FAFSA, make sure it's postmarked by March 2. If you file after March 2, you'll only be considered for Federal Direct Subsidized/Unsubsidized Loans, renewal Cal Grant, and Pell Grant. California Dream Act Application (CADAA) deadline is March 2, midnight Central Daylight Time: Submit your CADAA online to be considered for priority financial aid. If you're mailing your California Dream Application, make sure it's postmarked by March 2. If you file after the March 2 deadline, you may not be eligible for all forms of funding. Cal Grant GPA verification deadline is March 2: Mail the Cal Grant GPA Verification to the California Student Aid Commission to be considered for the California State Grant (Cal Grant). Make sure it's postmarked by March 2. Learn more about grants Due date for the UC San Diego Continuing Undergraduate Scholarships is March 2.

FAFSA deadline March 2 midnight Central Daylight Time: Submit your FAFSA online to be considered for priority financial aid. If you're mailing your FAFSA, make sure it's postmarked by March 2. If you file after March 2, you'll only be considered for Federal Direct Subsidized/Unsubsidized Loans, renewal Cal Grant, and Pell Grant.

If you're mailing your FAFSA, make sure it's postmarked by March 2.

If you file after March 2, you'll only be considered for Federal Direct Subsidized/Unsubsidized Loans, renewal Cal Grant, and Pell Grant.

California Dream Act Application (CADAA) deadline is March 2, midnight Central Daylight Time: Submit your CADAA online to be considered for priority financial aid. If you're mailing your California Dream Application, make sure it's postmarked by March 2. If you file after the March 2 deadline, you may not be eligible for all forms of funding.

If you're mailing your California Dream Application, make sure it's postmarked by March 2.

If you file after the March 2 deadline, you may not be eligible for all forms of funding.

Cal Grant GPA verification deadline is March 2: Mail the Cal Grant GPA Verification to the California Student Aid Commission to be considered for the California State Grant (Cal Grant). Make sure it's postmarked by March 2. Learn more about grants

Learn more about grants

Due date for the UC San Diego Continuing Undergraduate Scholarships is March 2.

Additional documents/actions deadline, May 1: Check the Financial Aid tool for additional documents or required actions. Submit any additional documents by the deadline to qualify for the best financial aid. Additional documents/actions may include verification worksheets, tax return transcripts, and resolving FAFSA processing holds indicated on your FAFSA Submission Summary.

If your FAFSA Submission Summary indicates you've been selected for verification: Complete the requested independent or dependent verification worksheet and submit it, along with any other required documents, to the Financial Aid and Scholarships Office.

Check your ucsd.edu e-mail inbox often for important communications from the Financial Aid and Scholarships Office. These messages may include requests for additional information to complete your application or to view and accept your official financial aid offer.

Access your financial aid status and official financial aid offer using the Financial Aid tool .

Log onto the Financial Aid tool for notification of UC San Diego continuing academic year and summer undergraduate research scholarship awards.

Log onto the Financial Aid tool for notification of UC San Diego continuing academic year and summer undergraduate research scholarship awards.

Begin saving money for expenses you'll need to pay before you receive your fall quarter financial aid.

Begin saving money for expenses you'll need to pay before you receive your fall quarter financial aid.

Continue to check your ucsd.edu e-mail inbox often for important communications from the Financial Aid and Scholarships Office.

Continue to check your ucsd.edu e-mail inbox often for important communications from the Financial Aid and Scholarships Office.

Summer Session financial aid: There is no application for Summer financial aid, however there are other requirements. For more information visit our Summer Session page .

Summer Session financial aid: There is no application for Summer financial aid, however there are other requirements. For more information visit our Summer Session page .

Students can expect to receive an email to their UC San Diego email address once financial aid packages are available in the Financial Aid and Scholarships (FAS) student portal.

If you've accepted a new Direct Subsidized/Unsubsidized Loan, and/ or a Parent PLUS Loan: Complete separate promissory notes for each new program.

If you've accepted a new Direct Subsidized/Unsubsidized Loan, and/ or a Parent PLUS Loan: Complete separate promissory notes for each new program.

If you've accepted a new Direct Subsidized/Unsubsidized Loan: Complete the required online loan counseling . Learn more about loans .

If you've accepted a new Direct Subsidized/Unsubsidized Loan:

Complete the required online loan counseling .

Complete the required online loan counseling .

Learn more about loans .

Learn more about loans .

Continue to review national competitive scholarships and outside agency scholarships so you can apply in time for any of the scholarships you qualify for (many require references, essays, and application forms, so you'll need time to get everything together). Follow the application instructions required by each separate scholarship sponsor.

Continue to review national competitive scholarships and outside agency scholarships so you can apply in time for any of the scholarships you qualify for (many require references, essays, and application forms, so you'll need time to get everything together). Follow the application instructions required by each separate scholarship sponsor.

Make sure you enroll in the minimum number of units for the quarter (see undergraduate enrollment requirements ).

Make sure you enroll in the minimum number of units for the quarter (see undergraduate enrollment requirements ).

After you've enrolled in classes and have completed the Financial Aid offer acceptance using the Financial Aid tool , your financial aid will be credited to your student account . Learn more about how financial aid funds are paid to you .

After you've enrolled in classes and have completed the Financial Aid offer acceptance using the Financial Aid tool , your financial aid will be credited to your student account .

Learn more about how financial aid funds are paid to you .

Learn more about how financial aid funds are paid to you .

Enroll in direct deposit by the first week of September to ensure that, after university charges have been paid, any remaining funds will be deposited directly into your bank account. Learn more about direct deposit .

Enroll in direct deposit by the first week of September to ensure that, after university charges have been paid, any remaining funds will be deposited directly into your bank account.

Learn more about direct deposit .

Learn more about direct deposit .

Eligibility Requirements

Packaging Policy

How You Receive Your Financial Aid

Financial Aid Timeline - Current Undergrads

Financial Aid Timeline - 2026-2027 Prospective Undergrads

Financial Aid Estimator

Forms & Resources