Receiving Your Loan

Receiving Your Loan

Entrance loan counseling must be completed for several loan types before funds can be moved to your student account. To ensure your funds are received without delay, follow the steps below to complete this requirement.

You need to complete online entrance loan counseling if you have a student loan, such as:

Federal Direct Subsidized/Unsubsidized/Graduate PLUS

Follow these steps to check your required documents and tasks for pending entrance loan counseling or other necessary items.

Log in to the Financial Aid and Scholarships (FAS) student portal using your UC San Diego User ID/PID and Password/PAC.

Choose the "Financial Aid" option under the "Financial Tools" tab.

Select the applicable academic year (use the “Financial Aid Information” dropdown).

If applicable, complete any items/actions in the Required Documents and Tasks section Students who are Federal Direct Loan borrowers (including Subsidized/Unsubsidized/Graduate Plus loans) must complete Entrance Loan Counseling the first time they decide to borrow a Direct Loan. This requirement will be displayed as “ Complete the Loan Counseling (you will need your FSA ID and Password) ” in the Required Documents and Tasks section if it is pending. Students who borrow campus-based loans such as a University Loan, or Dream Loan must complete all loan-related documents directly with the University’s third-party servicer ECSI. This requirement will be displayed as “ You recently accepted a campus-based loan. Click here to learn more about your responsibilities in reference to this loan. ” in the Required Documents and Tasks section if something is pending. Medical students borrowing Federal Direct Loans or campus-based loans should refer to the Health Sciences Financial Aid Office website .

Students who are Federal Direct Loan borrowers (including Subsidized/Unsubsidized/Graduate Plus loans) must complete Entrance Loan Counseling the first time they decide to borrow a Direct Loan. This requirement will be displayed as “ Complete the Loan Counseling (you will need your FSA ID and Password) ” in the Required Documents and Tasks section if it is pending.

Students who borrow campus-based loans such as a University Loan, or Dream Loan must complete all loan-related documents directly with the University’s third-party servicer ECSI. This requirement will be displayed as “ You recently accepted a campus-based loan. Click here to learn more about your responsibilities in reference to this loan. ” in the Required Documents and Tasks section if something is pending.

Medical students borrowing Federal Direct Loans or campus-based loans should refer to the Health Sciences Financial Aid Office website .

Repaying Your Loan

Private Education Loan Programs

Federal Direct Loans

California Dream Loans

University Undergraduate Loans

Short-Term Emergency Loans

Receiving Your Loan