Living On Campus

Undergrad Neighborhoods

Living Learning Communities

Living Learning Communities & Gender Inclusive Housing

UC San Diego is committed to creating more spaces where our diverse population of undergraduate students can connect with each other, with the university and with others within the community. Our Living-Learning Communities (LLCs) have been developed to strengthen learning by helping residents to connect academically and socially. The LLCs are each characterized by housing within the same residence location, shared co-curricular experiences, access to resources, and engaging in activities that reinforce common affinities such as aspects of culture.

Incoming students (freshmen and transfer) will have an opportunity to apply for an optional Living Learning Community during the housing contract phase.

LGBTQIA+ Living-Learning Community (LGBTQIA+LLC)

Housed at Muir College

The LGBTQIA+ LLC Program is housed in the Tuolumne Apartments and Tioga Residence Hall. The LGBTQIA+ LLC is open to all eligible students. The LGBTQIA+ LLC does not consider race, color, national origin, religion, sex, disability, and/or other protected categories as part of the application and selection process. This living and learning opportunity has been going for multiple years at Muir and offers a dynamic program in which residents participate in a variety of activities and programs. Residents also have the opportunity to be part of an advisory council that provides direction and feedback about the activities and programs that are offered to members of the LLC. Collectively, this is a community and a cohesive program that provides a comfortable living environment for its participates. Members of the LLC are given the opportunity to explore themselves and a variety of LGBTQIA+ topics.

Please contact the Muir Residential Life Office with questions: 858.534.4200 or muirreslife@ucsd.edu .

Warren College Incoming Transfers Living-Learning Community

Housed at Warren College

We are excited to offer at UC San Diego exclusively for Warren Transfer Students: A dedicated Living Learning Community (LLC) where Warren Transfer students are able to live and learn together in the same community within their home College. The Warren Transfer LLC is open to all eligible students. The Warren Transfer LLC does not consider race, color, national origin, religion, sex, disability, and/or other protected categories as part of the application and selection process. Transfer students will get the opportunity to live with one another, take cohort classes, and build a community. Transfer LLC residents will occupy the 3rd through 6th floors of Brown Hall, a 100-bed residential building comprised entirely of apartment-style single rooms with communal lounge spaces. The community will be comprised of 51 Warren Transfer students plus one RA who ideally is also a transfer student.

Please contact the Warren College Residential Life Office with questions: warrenreslife@ucsd.edu.

African Black Diaspora Living-Learning Community (ABDLLC)

Housed at Sixth College at North Torrey Pines Living Learning Neighborhood

UC San Diego recognizes the unique challenges and needs of the African Black Diaspora identities at institutions of higher education. The ABDLLC is open to all eligible students. The ABDLLC does not consider race, color, national origin, religion, sex, disability, and/or other protected categories as part of the application and selection process.The mission of the ABDLLC is to establish an environment of personal and academic excellence through the affirmation and celebration of Blackness in its various expressions. Led by the principles of Ujima (collective work and responsibility), Kujichagulia (self-determination), and Nia (purpose), the ABDLLC will function as cooperative community with the following shared goals:

Cultivating personal development and self-awareness

Fostering meaningful interpersonal connections and lifelong relationships

Validating the space of the individual, while also enabling diverse collaboration

Advocating for the empowerment of Black students across our campus and working to ensure equity, inclusion, and respect

Enriching the UCSD community with distinct African and Black culture

The ABDLLC aspires to be a platform that African Black Diaspora students and their allies can use to exhibit their authenticity and agency while engaging with Blackness and its full range of humanities, necessities, and potentials.

Please contact the Sixth College Residential Life Office with questions: 858-822-5268 or sixthrlstaff@ucsd.edu .

Raza Living-Learning Community (RLLC)

Housed at Eleanor Roosevelt College

The Raza Living-Learning Community (RLLC) will provide a space in the Eleanor Roosevelt College neighborhood for new and continuing UCSD students from all eight colleges to live and contribute to a vibrant community. The Raza LLC is open to all eligible students. The Raza LLC does not consider race, color, national origin, religion, sex, disability, and/or other protected categories as part of the application and selection process. New freshmen in the program will be housed in the residence halls and continuing and transfer students in the program will be housed within the International House complex. Residents in this community are committed to developing their understanding of and greater appreciation for the Chican@/x and Latin@/x experience in the United States and the histories and cultures of Latin America. The community’s programmatic objectives of community-building, mentorship, and education are enhanced by opportunities to partner with International House, Raza Resource Centro and the campus student organizations for an exciting calendar of formal and informal collaborations throughout the year.

Please contact the Eleanor Roosevelt College Residential Life Office with questions: 858-534-2261 or ercreslife@ucsd.edu .

Multi-Cultural Living and Learning Community (MCLLC)

This program will provide a space in the apartments in Sixth College at North Torrey Pines Living Learning Neighborhood for current continuing UC San Diego students from all 8 Colleges to live, gather, learn from one another, and build a strong community. Residents in this community are committed to developing and participating in educational and social opportunities for this multicultural community and others interested in multiculturalism and social justice.

Established in 2010, the Multi-Cultural Living and Learning Community (MCLLC) is meant to support students interested in promoting diversity and social justice at Sixth, UCSD, and in the surrounding community.  The MCLLC is open to all eligible students. The MCLLC does not consider race, color, national origin, religion, sex, disability, and/or other protected categories as part of the application and selection process. The MCLLC has provided opportunities for residents to work with Student Promoted Access Center for Education and Services (SPACES) and has collaborated with UCSD’s Cultural Centers to coordinate and promote programs focused on student activism. We hope to see this program grow with your participation and support.

Housed at Eleanor Roosevelt College

UC San Diego International House is a globally-focused community that fosters international awareness and intercultural understanding. I-House organizes a wide range of student-centered programming, house international and domestic students and international scholars, and provide a spectacular venue where campus affiliates and community members can host events.

I-House is open to all eligible students. I-House does not consider race, color, national origin, religion, sex, disability, and/or other protected categories as part of the application and selection process. Living in I-House is preceded by a competitive application process, and applications are accepted based on the quality and intent of the applicant’s responses.

All residency in I-House  will be based on campuswide on-housing eligibility ONLY. Once you have been notified by the university that you are eligible to live on campus, as part of the contracting process you will be invited to apply to living-learning communities such as International House.

For questions regarding the I-House program, including events and activities, contact ihouseintern@ucsd.edu .

Gender Inclusive Housing

Undergrad Neighborhoods

HDH Undergraduate Neighborhoods

Living Learning Communities

Room Types and Layouts