Chancellor's Scholarships for Entering First-Year

Chancellor's Scholarships for Entering First-Year

UC San Diego awards Chancellor's Scholarships to entering first-year students on the basis of outstanding academic achievement. Chancellor's Scholars receive an honorarium of up to $5,000 per year in each of their 4 undergraduate years (up to $20,000 total), plus special privileges as outlined below.

Eligibility Requirements

Entering first-year

California resident

United States citizens, permanent residents, or California Dream Act students

Demonstrated academic excellence (strength and breadth of your high school academic program, grades and other academic criteria)

Grant awards are based on financial need .

Other factors, including: Your personal statement on your UC application Extracurricular and community activities First-generation college attendance Educational environment and economic background

Your personal statement on your UC application

Extracurricular and community activities

First-generation college attendance

Educational environment and economic background

File your UC Application for Admission and Scholarships by the Nov. 30 deadline.

To demonstrate financial need to determine if you are eligible for a Chancellor's Scholarship award, then file your FAFSA (Free Application for Federal Student Aid) by April 2, OR the California Dream Act application (if you are AB540 eligible and not eligible to file a FAFSA). File only one of these applications. Read more about FAFSA . Read more about the California Dream Act application .

Read more about FAFSA .

Read more about the California Dream Act application .

You don't need to file any other paperwork.

UC San Diego notifies recipients of Chancellor's Scholarships in March, along with the admission notice.

Up to $5,000 per academic year for 4 years (up to $20,000 total).

Your FAFSA or California Dream Act application establishes your financial need .

Chancellor's Scholarship Benefits

Guaranteed housing

As a Chancellor's Scholar, you are guaranteed housing as long as you meet all housing deadlines.

Priority enrollment appointments

Priority begins the first Winter Quarter and continues for future undergraduate enrollment. The first Fall quarter enrollment occurs during the normal first-year enrollment period between August – September.

View your enrollment appointment time each upcoming quarter by checking the announcements on the Financial Aid and Scholarships (FAS) student portal .

UC San Diego announces enrollment appointment dates and times for the next quarter on Monday of Week 5 of the current quarter.

If you don't receive an enrollment time on the first day of priority enrollment, contact the Scholarship Office , (858) 534-1067.

Study abroad program

The Study Abroad Office provides an assigned advisor who personally guides Chancellor's Scholars toward optimal study-abroad options.

Your advisor helps ensure you're eligible and have choices among the best study-abroad options offered by UC San Diego.

Your advisor provides information about financial aid and scholarships for study-abroad programs.

Visit the Study Abroad Office to learn more.

Questions? Contact Study Abroad Director Kim Burton , (858) 534-1123.

Chancellor's Scholars Program

As a Chancellor's Scholar, you will be expected to participate in a leadership development program that includes faculty and peer mentoring, developing leadership and professional skills, and social and community service activities with other Scholars.

Read more about the Chancellor's Scholars Program .

The Emeriti Mentoring Program

The Emeriti Mentor Program is a partnership between Chancellor's Scholars and accomplished retired UCSD faculty and staff. This mentoring relationship provides the intellectual, social and cultural preparation necessary for a successful college experience. It provides practical insight, know-how and advice gleaned from real-world experience, and can serve as a bridge to future academic, personal and professional growth. It provides UCSD Emeriti Association members with an opportunity to make a positive and personally meaningful contribution to the university by helping Chancellor's Scholars steer their educational careers to greater success.

Read more about the Emeriti Mentoring Program.

Entering First-Year Students

Entering Transfer Students

Chancellor's Scholarships for Entering First-Year

Regents Scholarships for Entering Freshmen

Continuing Undergraduate Students

Receiving Scholarship Funds from Non-UC San Diego Organizations

Middle Class Scholarship

Outside Agency Scholarships