UC-Sponsored Student Health Insurance Plan (UC SHIP) Plan Year Waiver Criteria

Effective 5/1/2024

I. All plans must provide unrestricted access to an in-network primary care provider, in-network hospital and full, non-emergency medical and behavioral health care within 40 miles of campus or the student’s place of residence while attending school. Such distance shall be determined at the discretion of each campus based upon its unique geographic considerations and local availability of services. (The waiver form will indicate the distance requirement appropriate for each campus.)

NOTE: this criterion applies to all plan types without exception, including Medi-Cal or Medicaid, Medicare, TRICARE/military, HMOs (including Kaiser, WHA, and others), Covered California or other U.S. federal or state exchange plans, all employee-sponsored and individual plans.

II. Coverage is currently active and the student agrees to maintain health coverage throughout the entire academic year. If your current insurance coverage is terminated, contact the Student Insurance Office as quickly as possible to discuss your health insurance options.

III. To satisfy UC’s health insurance requirement for enrolled students, the plan held by the student must provide the following (this applies to all students regardless of gender):

Be a Medi-Cal/Medicaid, Medicare, TRICARE/Military, Covered California or other U.S. federal or state exchange plan, or a UC Employee Health Plan, OR

Be an employer-sponsored group health plan or individual plan that covers the following benefits: Has an annual out-of-pocket maximum of $8,700 or less for an individual or $17,400 or less for a family. This includes deductibles, copayments, and coinsurance paid by the member accruing towards meeting the out-of-pocket maximum. A higher out-of-pocket maximum is allowed if the subscriber has a Health Savings Account (HSA) or a Health Reimbursement Account (HRA) Covers inpatient (hospital) and outpatient care for mental health and substance abuse disorder conditions the same as any other medical condition. Doctor office visits for medical, including mental health, and alcohol/drug abuse conditions Provides coverage for all Minimum Essential Health Benefits. For the criteria, please see: https://www.cms.gov/cciio/resources/data-resources/ehb.html May not be a health care or pharmacy reimbursement plan (A reimbursement plan means the student must pay for services and seek reimbursement from the insurance provider) Have no per medical or mental health/substance abuse dollar maximums limits

Has an annual out-of-pocket maximum of $8,700 or less for an individual or $17,400 or less for a family. This includes deductibles, copayments, and coinsurance paid by the member accruing towards meeting the out-of-pocket maximum. A higher out-of-pocket maximum is allowed if the subscriber has a Health Savings Account (HSA) or a Health Reimbursement Account (HRA)

Covers inpatient (hospital) and outpatient care for mental health and substance abuse disorder conditions the same as any other medical condition.

Doctor office visits for medical, including mental health, and alcohol/drug abuse conditions

Provides coverage for all Minimum Essential Health Benefits. For the criteria, please see: https://www.cms.gov/cciio/resources/data-resources/ehb.html

May not be a health care or pharmacy reimbursement plan (A reimbursement plan means the student must pay for services and seek reimbursement from the insurance provider)

Have no per medical or mental health/substance abuse dollar maximums limits

IV. For international students, the following additional criteria apply. The plan must:

Have no per-medical or per-mental health/substance use disorder condition maximum benefit limits

Cover services related to suicidal conditions, including attempted suicide or suicidal thoughts

Cover medical services for injury from participation in all types of recreational activities or amateur sports

Have no pre-existing condition exclusion or limitation; if the plan has a pre-existing condition waiting period, that period has expired

Have no lifetime maximums on benefits

Have a complete master policy written in standard English with benefits expressed in U.S. dollars

Have a claims payment office with an address and phone number in the United States

Pay at least $50,000 annually for medical evacuation

Pay at least $25,000 for repatriation of remains

If You Plan to Waive SHIP

ACA Requirements