Admitted Students

Before You Arrive on Campus

Before You Arrive on Campus

UC INCOMING HEALTH REQUIREMENTS:

Please ensure these requirements are attended to early to avoid delays. Clearance can take 7-10 days after receipt, so please start this process as soon as possible. A failure to complete requirements will result in an inability to enroll in classes.

*For important information on your immunization and tuberculosis requirements, please go to the Student Health Website for more details.

You will need to have your AD login to complete this process (UCSD email & password).

To complete your TB & Immunization Requirements you will need to activate your online health portal MyStudentChart .

For all health questions, you will first need to log on to MyStudentChart and send a Message to "ASK-A-NURSE". Please note the volume of submissions and questions can be high during the deadlines.

Financial Matters

Sign up for Direct Deposit as soon as possible.

Direct deposit electronically transfers your salary or fellowship stipend to your bank account.

Direct deposit will ensure you are paid smoothly and in a timely manner.

If you do not sign up for direct deposit, paper checks will be prepared and it will take longer to receive your stipend or salary.

Learn how to sign up for direct deposit here: https://grad.ucsd.edu/financial/financial-faq.html#How-does-a-student-sign-up-for- Direct deposit for employment will take place after you arrive on campus and have completed hire paperwork with your department.

Direct deposit for employment will take place after you arrive on campus and have completed hire paperwork with your department.

Submit your Pending Admissions Documents

Log into your application portal and submit all documents listed on your application status page. Further instructions are listed in your portal and may be found here as well.

Beginning with the Fall 2023 admissions cycle, admitted students who have earned degree(s) from  institution(s) outside of the U.S. are required to submit a Course-by-Course evaluation to have their admission finalized. Do not send your official materials directly to UC San Diego. They must be uploaded to your Course-by-Course company of choice directly for further evaluation. Please select one of the following companies to complete your Course-by-Course evaluation:

WES Course-by-Course evaluation

TEC Course-by-Course evaluation

If you have any coursework currently in progress, please wait until all coursework is completed and degrees have been conferred and posted prior to sending your transcript. All coursework must be completed prior to beginning graduate study at UC San Diego.

Learn About Student Health Insurance

Payment of your Tuition and Fees includes a fee payment for the UC Student Health Insurance Plan (UC SHIP). Enrollment in UC SHIP is automatic. Effective dates for UC SHIP can be found on the Student Health Services Website.

If you need medical attention prior to the effective date of UC SHIP you will be responsible for the cost of any medical services incurred prior to the start of your student plan. Therefore, if you intend to arrive to the San Diego area before the effective date of UC SHIP it is highly recommended that you purchase your own personal health insurance that will cover you until the effective date of UC SHIP. Short term plans are offered by many different insurance companies. For more information we recommend you research those options to select the short term insurance plan that will meet your needs.

Student Health Insurance Waiver : All students are automatically enrolled in UC SHIP each academic year. However, students who are able to demonstrate they have comparable coverage may be able to opt out of UC SHIP. For more information on this option please see How to Waive UC SHIP .

Students in joint doctoral programs (JDPs) should check with their department regarding eligibility for UC SHIP.

Health Fee and Insurance Requirement Webinar

These sessions will cover detailed information about UCSHIP, Raft, and other forms of insurance. It will also give you an opportunity to ask any questions that you may have. To register for a session, please use the links below (You only need to register for 1 session based on your classification) . Parents and families are welcome to attend with their students.

Session dates and details coming soon.

Read the UCSD Policy on Integrity of Scholarship

The Academic Integrity (AI) Office promotes and supports a culture of academic integrity in order to reinforce quality teaching and learning at UC San Diego. It's your responsibility to be aware of the policy on academic integrity .  The University expects both faculty and students to honor the policy. For students, this means that all academic work will be done by the individual to whom it's assigned, without unauthorized aid of any kind.

Read the Principles of Community

Non Discrimination Statement : In accordance with applicable Federal and State law and University policy, the University of California does not discriminate, or grant preferences, on the basis of race, color, national origin, religion, sex, disability, and/or other protected categories. More information about Proposition 209 can be found here . More information about the University of California Anti-Discrimination Policy can be found here.

Admitted Students

What to Do Immediately

Before You Arrive on Campus

When You Arrive on Campus

International Students

Undocumented Student Guide