Living On Campus

Undergrad Neighborhoods

HDH Undergraduate Neighborhoods

Pepper Canyon East & Matthews Apartments

Pepper Canyon East and Matthews Apartments

The Pepper Canyon & Matthews Apartments

Pepper Canyon is a community of apartments for incoming and continuing transfer students and continuing undergraduate students. The neighborhood consists of Matthews Apartments and Pepper Canyon Apartments. This unique community is conveniently located near the new mass-transit trolley. Apartments consist of double and triple rooms with some singles.

Room Previews (pdf)

Neighborhood Map: Interactive Map Location PDF version

Interactive Map Location

Residential Life Office

Hours of Operation:

Monday to Friday 8:00 AM - 4:00 PM

Keys and Lock Outs

Lockout assistance is available at the Pepper Canyon East ResLife Office during business hours:

Monday to Friday 8:00 AM - 10:00 PM

Saturday & Sunday 9:00 AM - 10:00 PM

For lockout assistance after hours please contact the FixIt! Hotline at 858.534.2600.

Mail and Packages

Packages and Parcels

Packages addressed to your Pepper Canyon East address should be collected from the Central Parcel Center at The Trove, just in front of Geisel library. This center is run by Student Mail Services. For more information on Student Mail Service operations, please visit their website here: https://students.ucsd.edu/campus-services/mail-services/index.html

Amazon packages can be routed to the Amazon locker located outside of the Pepper Canyon East Lodge.

Packages and parcels can be picked up during business hours 7 days a week. You will be notified via email from Student Mail Services that your package is ready for pick up at the Trove.

If you have not received an email from Student Mail Services, your package is not ready to be picked up.

SCL “Shipment Tracking Tool”

Residents can use this portal to track packages that have been scanned and received by Student Mail Services. Use your Single Sign-On credentials to log into and track packages. Please note that it takes 1-2 business days for packages to appear.

In order to receive mail and packages, please use the following address format:

# _ _ _ _ _ (mailbox #)

La Jolla, Ca 92092- _ _ _ _ (Last four numbers of mailbox)

Letter mail can be collected from the mailboxes outside of the Residence Life office. Information about mailbox combinations is emailed to residents at the start of Fall Quarter by the ResLife Office.

Mailbox combination instructions

Sample Building Layouts

Sample layouts only. Configurations and spaces vary by facility.

Pepper Canyon Apartment (one-story)

Pepper Canyon Apartment (two story; common area & kitchen downstairs)

Matthews Apartment

Lodge Laundry Room

Matthews B Laundry Room

Building 300/400 Laundry Room

Located in the Lodge

Covid-19 test site

Located outside of the Lodge entrance

Located next to the Residence Life Office

Located outside of the Lodge entrance

Trash Disposal and Recycling

Located in lots P401, P402, and P403.

Equipment Check Out

Located at the ResLife Office

Game Equipment (pool table equipment, ping pong set)

Cleaning Kit & Vacuum

Common areas are only reservable by ResLife staff

Tennis/Pickleball Courts

Pepper Canyon East & Matthews Apartments

Pepper Canyon East Matthews Apartments FAQ