Student Services

iServices Instructions for Students

Replacement Requests

Replacement Requests

International students who need replacement I-20 (F-1 students) or DS-2019 (J-1 students) forms can request them from ISEO.

Invalid OPT I-20 Replacement Request

F-1 students applying for Optional Practical Training (OPT) work authorization must ensure that U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services ( USCIS ) receives their OPT application within 30 days of the date the OPT I-20 is issued as well as within the student's eligibility window. OPT applications received by USCIS beyond the 30 days from the date the OPT I-20 was issued will be automatically denied by USCIS.

If you miss this 30-day deadline, are within your OPT eligibility window and would still like to apply for OPT, then you must request a replacement I-20 from ISEO before submitting your OPT application to USCIS.

Submit a Invalid OPT I-20 Replacement Request in iServices :

Find the Working in the U.S. category in the left menu. Select Initial OPT Requests or STEM OPT Requests . Choose the Invalid OPT I-20 Replacement Request option.

Select Initial OPT Requests or STEM OPT Requests .

Choose the Invalid OPT I-20 Replacement Request option.

You will receive a confirmation email when your request has been successfully submitted.

ISEO has an average processing time of 10 business days . You will be notified via email when your request is complete.

I-515A Replacement Request

If you arrive at the U.S. port of entry without all of your required documents or with unsigned or missing documents, the Customs and Border Protection (CBP) officer has the discretion to issue you a form I-515A , which allows you temporary entry into the U.S. for 30 days.

If you are issued a form I-515A, then you must request a replacement I-20 or DS-2019 from ISEO upon arrival to UC San Diego, and submit this new document to USCIS based on the instructions on the form I-515A.

Submit a I-515A Replacement Request in iServices :

Find the Verification and Support Services category in the left menu. Select the I-515A Replacement Request .

Select the I-515A Replacement Request .

You will receive a confirmation email when your request has been successfully submitted.

ISEO has an average processing time of 10 business days . You will be notified via email when your request is complete.

Copy of Past Immigration Documents

If your past I-20 or DS-2019 forms have been lost, you can request unsigned copies of particular forms that may be stored in ISEO's electronic archives for various reasons, most often for OPT or H1-B applications. These copies cannot be backsigned and must be watermarked as copies.

These copies are NOT VALID FOR TRAVEL . If you need an updated or reprinted I-20 or DS-2019 with a new travel signature for re-entering the U.S., please submit a Travel Signature request.

ISEO provides copies of these forms as a courtesy to our students. We cannot guarantee availability of past forms requested by the student and we are not liable for forms that are no longer available.

Submit a Copy of Past Documents Request in iServices :

Find the Verification and Support Services category in the left menu. Select the Copy of Past Documents Request .

Select the Copy of Past Documents Request .

You will receive a confirmation email when your request has been successfully submitted.

ISEO has an average processing time of 10 business days . You will be notified via email when your request is complete. No hard copies will be provided, only electronic copies.

No hard copies will be provided, only electronic copies.

*If you cannot access iServices, please direct your request to ISEO via the contact form .

iServices Instructions for Students

I-20/DS-2019 Funding Requirements

Processing Times

Verification Documents and Letter Requests

Replacement Requests