Student Services

Travel and Visa Application

F-1/J-1 Visa Application

F-1/J-1 Visa Application

UC San Diego international students must apply or re-apply for a new visa at a U.S. embassy or consulate abroad in order to seek entry to the U.S. on F or J status. Most visa applications require a face-to-face interview with a US consular officer. The visa application process can take up to 6-8 weeks, so plan accordingly.

Schedule a Visa Appointment

Complete the DS-160 Online Nonimmigrant Visa Application form. You will need your SEVIS ID (number starting with “N” located at the top of your I-20/DS-2019) to complete this. In addition, J-1 students will need to provide UCSD’s J-1 Program Number. This number is: P-1-02849.

When asked for UC San Diego’s contact information for the DS-160, you may put down the following:

Contact name: Name of the advisor listed on your I-20/DS-2019 document

Contact phone: 858-534-3730

Contact address: 9500 Gilman Drive, La Jolla, CA 92093

Contact email: istudents@ucsd.edu

New Students: The earliest that an F-1 or J-1 visa can be granted is 365 days before the program start date listed on your SEVIS Form. You may apply for an F-1 or J-1 visa earlier than 365 days before the start date to allow for visa processing and security clearance delays, however, the consulate cannot actually issue the visa until 365 days before the program start date.

Gather Required Documents

Consult the website for the U.S. embassy or consulate that you will visit before your visa appointment. Go to the Nonimmigrant Visa section and follow the instructions. Many people are denied visas when they are unprepared.

Document Requirements for all F and J Visa Interviews:

Passport which is valid up to six months after date of entry into the U.S.

Form I-20 (F-1 students) or DS-2019 (J-1 students) with a valid travel signature or copy of your I-797 approval notice

Evidence of financial support : Bank statement or financial support letter from sponsor or UC San Diego academic department

Home country address and documentation of home ties (if available)

Any additional documents required by the specific U.S. embassy or consulate where you are applying for your visa

Additional Requirements:

F-1 and J-1 Newly Admitted Students: Degree-seeking students: Your official UC San Diego offer of admission letter Exchange students: Your official acceptance notification from the UCEAPR or Global Exchange office

Degree-seeking students: Your official UC San Diego offer of admission letter

Exchange students: Your official acceptance notification from the UCEAPR or Global Exchange office

F-1 and J-1 Continuing Students: Official UC San Diego Transcript that you can order on TritonLink Graduate students: letter from your academic department verifying program start date, good standing, expected program completion, and brief description of the nature of your research

Official UC San Diego Transcript that you can order on TritonLink

Graduate students: letter from your academic department verifying program start date, good standing, expected program completion, and brief description of the nature of your research

F-1 Alumni on F-1 OPT : F-1 OPT Employment Authorization Document (EAD) card Job offer letter or proof of employment (if employed)

F-1 OPT Employment Authorization Document (EAD) card

Job offer letter or proof of employment (if employed)

J-1 Alumni on J-1 AT : J-1 Academic Training Authorization Letter Job offer letter or proof of employment (if employed)

J-1 Academic Training Authorization Letter

Job offer letter or proof of employment (if employed)

Prepare for Your Visa Interview

A visa application is a personal application the student is making to the U.S. government. The university cannot assist with completing the visa application or preparing for visa interview or re-interview.

ISEO's role in the visa application process is to issue the Initial Form I-20 or DS-2019, which verifies the student's admission, planned program dates and field of study, and that UCSD has determined them a bona fide student. But it is the student's responsibility to prove to the consulate the other factors required for F-1 or J-1 eligibility which include (but are not limited to): nonimmigrant intent; ties to home country and plans to depart U.S. upon completion of F-1 or J-1 objectives; and proof of financial ability to sustain their livelihood while studying in the U.S.

Students who experience visa delays (administrative processing and/or visa denial) should seek the help of a qualified immigration attorney.

Based on information received from various consular officers, the following are recommendations to prepare for your visa interview:

Listen carefully to what the consular officer asks you and then answer the question directly.

⁠Consular officer may ask you questions in different languages, it is you best interest to response back consular officer in English to proof your English language ability.

Be prepared to show strong ties to your home country with official documentation. Ties to your country are ties that compel you to leave the U.S. after you finish your program of study.

If your family owns a property, take the deeds of papers showing your ownership.

If you and your family have had numerous past visits to the U.S., take along passports, even old ones - to show that you have many visas and many visits, but after every visit to U.S. you still returned to your home country.

If you have membership in a professional organization in your home country, bring proof of this membership.

If you have the prospect of a job offer, get a letter from the company saying that you will be considered for the job upon your return, or that people with the kind of education you are seeking are needed.

Answer every question truthfully.

Some factors that might work against you in the mind of the consular officer are:

Someone in the U.S. is promising to support you

Lack of family ties

Poor job prospect upon return

Poor English language ability

Poor academic record (suggesting that you are not a serious student)

Read more interview tips:

10 Points to Remember When Applying for Your Non-Immigrant Visa

Citizens of Canada and Bermuda

Citizens of Canada and Bermuda do not require visas to enter the U.S., although they must present a valid Form I-20  (F-1 students) or Form DS-2019 (J-1 students) to enter the U.S. in F-1 or J-1 student status. ISEO recommends students also have their I-901 fee receipt and proof of funding at the time of admission to the U.S.

See the Information for Citizens of Canada and Bermuda page on the U.S. Department of State website.

Additional resources for Canadian visitors to the United States can be found on the U.S. Embassy and Consulate websites in Canada .

Applying for a U.S. Visa in a Country Other than Your Own

Per the U.S. Department of State (effective September 6, 2025), all applicants for nonimmigrant visas (including F-1 and J-1 students) must schedule their visa appointments in their country of nationality or residence .

Key details from the Department of State:

Applicants must be able to show proof of residence in the country where they apply (if applying in their country of residence).

For nationals of countries where the U.S. is not conducting routine visa services, alternative locations have been designated .

Scheduling an appointment in a country other than your nationality or residence may make it harder to qualify for a visa. In such cases, fees will not be refunded or transferred.

Applicants should check embassy and consulate websites for more detailed information about visa application requirements, procedures, and services.

Students are strongly encouraged to review the estimated visa appointment wait times posted by the Department of State, prior to making any international travel plans for visa application or renewal. These wait times are only estimated and are subject to change, however may assist with planning time needed to undergo the visa application process.

For more information, please refer to the official Department of State announcement .

Applying for a Visa to Countries Other than the U.S.

To travel outside the U.S. to a country other than your home country, remember that a new set of laws will be in effect, and you may need a visa to enter that country. To learn more about visa requirements, contact that country's closest embassy or consulate in the U.S. or visit their website.

You can search for information about foreign countries' embassies and consulates in the U.S. on the U.S. Department of State website.

ISEO cannot advise on other countries' entry-visa requirements.

Visa Delays and Denials

Visa Delays and Administrative Processing

In some cases, a consular officer may determine that your eligibility for a visa could not be established during your visa interview. If the consulate decides that your visa application requires further review, they will place your visa application in administrative processing. Administrative processing is also known as a "visa refusal" under section 221(g) of the U.S. Immigration and Nationality Act. Administrative processing is an extended review of your visa application. It means that your request for a visa has been temporarily refused until the consulate can complete their review of your application and determine your visa eligibility. Administrative processing/visa refusal means that your visa application is under review. Administrative processing will eventually result in a decision to either approve or deny your visa.

The duration of the administrative processing will vary based on the individual circumstances of each case. It may take anywhere from several weeks to several months for the consulate to complete their review of your visa application.

For more information on administrative processing, please review the U.S. Department of State website: Administrative Processing Information .

Steps You Can Take:

Inform your department (graduate students) or college (undergraduate students) of potential delays in coming to campus.

If the consular official asks for additional course of study information, contact your academic department for a support letter. We have provided guidance for departments here on what information to include.

Keep ISEO informed on the status of your visa issuance so that we can make any adjustments necessary to your Form I-20 or DS-2019.

ISEO recommends that students understand the "fare rules" when purchasing airline tickets. Departure and arrival plans may change depending on travel document and visa issuance timelines.  It is recommended that you purchase a plane ticket that can be changed or refunded if your travel plans change.

If you are denied a visa, you will be informed of the reason for the denial and be given the opportunity to reappear if you can provide additional evidence to support your case.

Before reapplying, be sure you understand the grounds for your denial so that you can appeal effectively.

Steps You Can Take:

Inform your department (graduate students) or college (undergraduate students) of potential delays in coming to campus.

Keep ISEO informed on the status of your visa issuance so that we can make any adjustments necessary to your Form I-20 or DS-2019.

ISEO recommends that students understand the "fare rules" when purchasing airline tickets. Departure and arrival plans may change depending on travel document and visa issuance timelines.  It is recommended that you purchase a plane ticket that can be changed or refunded if your travel plans change.

Contact an International Student Advisor

Document iSelfCheck

Family Resources

Travel and Visa Application

Visa Application

International Travel

Travel Signature

Check in for SEVIS Activation

Visa Delays and Denials