UC SHIP for Non-registered Students and Dependents

Dependent Coverage

UC SHIP - Voluntary Coverage for Dependents

The UC Student Health Insurance Plan (UC SHIP) offers voluntary coverage for eligible dependents of students enrolled in the plan. Students have the option to enroll their dependents for Medical coverage only, or for Medical and Dental coverage.

Enrollment in the dependent plan will be managed by Academic Health Plans (AHP). All payments for the dependent premiums must be submitted directly to AHP. Student Health Services does not manage the enrollment or collect payments for the dependent plan. For dependent plan enrollment questions, enrollment timeframes, and to enroll in the plan, call AHP Customer Service at 855-428-0730 or e-mail ucship@ahpservice.com .

Access to Student Health Services is only available to registered students. Dependents are not eligible to use Student Health Services and therefore are not subject to the referral requirements included on the student plan. Dependents may self refer to any Anthem Blue Cross PPO provider to receive benefits for eligible services. See Benefit Information below for details.

Students who are enrolled in UC SHIP have the option to enroll the following eligible dependents in the plan:

Spouse: legally married spouse of the student

Same-sex domestic partner

Child: the student's unmarried child

Natural child: under the age of 23

Stepchild: a stepchild under the age of 23 is a dependent on the date the student marries the child's parent

Adopted child: under the age of 23, including a child placed with the student for the purpose of adoption, from the moment of placement as certified by the agency making the placement

Foster child: a foster child under the age of 18 is a dependent from the moment of placement with the student as certified by the agency making the placement

Note: If both student parents are covered under UC SHIP, their children may be covered as the dependents of either student, but not both.

For dependent plan enrollment questions, contact AHP at 855-428-0730 or e-mail ucship@ahpservice.com .

Coverage Periods

Enrollment Deadline

2025 Early Start

Coverage dates vary by program

Varies depending on Coverage Period

9/22/2025 through 1/1/2026

1/2/2026 through 3/24/2026

3/25/2026 through 9/20/2026

Costs and How to Enroll

​Students are required to provide proof of dependent status when enrolling their dependents in the plan. For dependent plan enrollment questions, including enrollment deadlines and cost, ​or to enroll in the dependent plan,  contact AHP at 855-428-0730 or e-mail ucship@ahpservice.com .

NOTE: You must contact AHP to re-enroll your dependents each quarter.  Re-enrollment is NOT automatic for dependents.

Benefit Information

The following documents can be accessed through the UC website: UC Student Health Insurance Plan (UC SHIP) .

UC SHIP Dependent Medical Benefits Summary

UC SHIP Dependent Rx Benefits Summary

UC SHIP for Non-registered Students and Dependents

Dependent Coverage

Grad Students -Leave of Absence or Filing Fee Status

After Graduation