Student Health Services

Student Health Services (SHS) offers a comprehensive range of quality medical services — conveniently located right on-campus — tailored to meet the diverse needs of our student community.

May is Mental Health Month

Explore a full range of resources, events and programs offered throughout May!

Explore the SHW Calendar to view dates, locations and details for upcoming programs and events.

Explore Our FREE Well-Being Resources

Resources and programs are designed to nurture students' physical, mental and emotional health.

Comprehensive Medical Services

Our teams are staffed by experts ready to assist you.

The SHS Nurse Advice Line is Available 24/7!

Call (858) 534-3300 and choose “Nurse Advice” to speak with a Registered Nurse who can provide health guidance, available 24/7 to all UCSD students at no cost.

Connect with us on Instagram

Follow @ucsdshw on Instagram for health resources, events, wellness tips and more.

Supported by a team of dedicated professionals, SHS provides primary care, urgent care, reproductive health, sports medicine, gender-affirming care, nutrition counseling, behavioral health and travel clinic services. With convenient on-campus resources like laboratory testing, optometry, pharmacy and X-rays, students can easily access the care they need so they can focus on thriving academically and personally.

Supported by a team of dedicated professionals, SHS provides primary care, urgent care, reproductive health, sports medicine, gender-affirming care, nutrition counseling, behavioral health and travel clinic services. With convenient on-campus resources like laboratory testing, optometry, pharmacy and X-rays, students can easily access the care they need so they can focus on thriving academically and personally.

Come Visit Us at Student Health Services!

The SHS clinic is conveniently located on Library Walk and is open weekdays for in-person appointments.

Hours and Location

Call (858) 534-3300 to make an appointment or self-schedule online in MyStudentChart: Menu > Schedule an Appointment > choose appointment type.

Nurse Advice and After-Hours Care

When the SHS building is closed, you have options for care including local Express Care, urgent care, telehealth visits, and more. The SHS nurse advice line is available 24/7.

SEE OPTIONS FOR CARE

Cheaper prescription co-pays than at retail pharmacies, special UC SHIP rates, huge discounts on over-the-counter (OTC) items, and more.

Virtual Resources

View and schedule appointments in the MyChart app and login for your video visits.

Download your virtual insurance card and see Anthem plan information.

Willo integrates UC San Diego’s extensive health and well-being services into one intuitive app.

Get Yourself Tested for STIs

Health Requirements for Incoming Students

Patient Rights and Responsibilities

Schedule a Telehealth Visit with an SHS Provider

In accordance with applicable Federal and State law and University policy, the University of California does not discriminate, or grant preferences, on the basis of race, color, national origin, religion, sex, disability, and/or other protected categories.

Review Proposition 209 .

Learn more about the University of California Anti-Discrimination Policy .

Hours & Location

Student Health Services is located on Library Walk, west of the Price Center, south of Geisel Library.

View our current hours

Phone: (858) 534-3300 Fax: (858) 534-7545 Email: studenthealth@ucsd.edu Always write the word secure: in the subject line to protect your personal information

Patient Feedback

Sexual Misconduct Reporting

Sign up for our weekly newsletter