Transcripts Questions

Transcripts Questions

Can I upload unofficial transcripts to the application?

Yes. You may upload your most recent unofficial transcripts for application review purposes. Official copies of final transcripts are only required if you are offered and accepted admission.

My school's GPA does not use a 4.0 grading scale. Should I convert my grades to a 4.0 scale?

Do I need to upload the final transcript before the application deadline?

No, many applicants still have classes in progress at the time of the application deadline. Upload your most recent transcript(s) to your application. If admitted, you will be required to provide official copies of your final transcripts.

When do I send my official transcripts?

We do not require official copies of transcripts until after you have been offered and have accepted admission. For application review purposes, scanned and uploaded copies of transcripts are acceptable.

What is the minimum GPA for admission to graduate study at UC San Diego?

There is an institutional expectation of a minimum scholastic average of B or 3.0 GPA (or its equivalent).  Departments evaluate applicants based on all aspects of the application. Some exceptional applicants with lower GPAs may be recommended for admission. Additionally, a GPA of 3.0 or higher does not guarantee admission. Contact your department of interest for more information.

Provisionally admitted students with academic work in progress are expected to continue to maintain a 3.0 or better GPA after admission. Admission may be rescinded if the final GPA drops below 3.0.

Does UC San Diego accept transcript evaluations?

How can I check to see if my transcript has been received?

Transcripts are processed within 3-4 weeks of receipt. You can check on the status of your documents by logging onto https://gradapply.ucsd.edu/ . Please note that the "Provisionally Admitted" status will not affect your ability to register for Fall classes. All pending documents should be received by the start of Fall.

I'm an international student, how do I submit my official transcripts?

All admitted applicants who have earned a degree(s) from an institution(s) outside of the United States are required to complete and submit a Course-by-Course evaluation to have their admission finalized. Please select one of the following companies to complete your Course-by-Course evaluation:

WES Course-by-Course evaluation

TEC Course-by-Course evaluation

What do you mean by "official" transcript?

Official transcripts bear the signature of the authorized official of the issuing institution, the seal of the institution, and are received by our office in a sealed envelope from the institution. Domestic applicants can either bring the unopened transcripts into the office or have your institution(s) submit them electronically to gradadmissions@ucsd.edu or mail them to UC San Diego directly at the following address:

University of California, San Diego Graduate Education and Postdoctoral Affairs (GEPA) - Graduate Admissions 9500 Gilman Drive #0003 La Jolla, California 92093-0003

All admitted applicants who have earned a degree(s) from an institution(s) outside of the United States are required to complete and submit a course-by-course evaluation to have their admission finalized. Please select one of the following companies to complete your course-by-course evaluation:

WES Course-by-Course evaluation

TEC Course-by-Course evaluation

If you have earned a degree from an institution outside of the U.S., do not have your official materials sent to UC San Diego directly.

What if my school does not provide another official transcript?

If that is the case, we require a letter from the institution stating that only one transcript can be issued. You can then send a copy of the original transcript to the school and ask them to stamp and sign it, and return it to us in a school-sealed envelope.

I obtained my undergraduate degree from UC San Diego. Am I required to submit all of my official transcripts again?

Yes. The Registrar cannot give us the transcripts you provided to them as they are a required part of your permanent undergraduate record. We will need official copies of all transcripts for your graduate record.  We will accept either official hard-copy or electronic transcripts from the UC San Diego Registrar.

My transcripts are over a year old and I can't order new copies. Can I still upload them to my application?

Yes, you may upload your most recent unofficial transcripts for application review purposes. If your most recent transcript is dated from more than a year ago and includes the degree conferral it will be accepted.

My school will not issue my degree certificate/diploma until a year after graduation. What can I do in the meantime?

Ask your school to provide a letter explaining the cause of delay regarding the issuing of your degree certificate/diploma.

Non Discrimination Statement : In accordance with applicable Federal and State law and University policy, the University of California does not discriminate, or grant preferences, on the basis of race, color, national origin, religion, sex, disability, and/or other protected categories. More information about Proposition 209 can be found here . More information about the University of California Anti-Discrimination Policy can be found here.

General Application Questions

Application Fee Questions

Funding Questions

Test and Scores Questions

Letters of Recommendation Questions

Transcripts Questions

Gender Identity, Sexual Orientation, Ethnicity Questions

International Applicant Questions

Joint Doctoral Program (JDP) Applicant Questions

Undocumented Student Questions

Admitted Student Questions