Scholar Services

J-1 Arrival Information

J-1 Arriving in the U.S.

Once you have arrived in the U.S., you will need to register and attend a mandatory orientation with ISEO. The registration process will allow ISEO to validate your record in SEVIS with the Department of State as well as review your immigration documents issued for entry to the U.S. The mandatory J-1 orientation session will help answer most of your questions about your program and resources for your stay in the U.S.

You can find more information about the registration process and orientation sessions below, along with other information about settling into your routine as an international scholar at UC San Diego.

Attend Mandatory J-1 Orientation

The U.S. Department of State requires all J-1 exchange visitors to complete a mandatory orientation provided by their program sponsor. Orientation helps scholars understand the regulations governing the Exchange Visitor Program, how to maintain valid J-1 status, and the resources available while at UC San Diego.

When ISEO issues an initial DS-2019, scholars will receive an email with instructions to complete the required J-1 orientation through Homebase , ISEO’s self-paced online orientation platform. Scholars will be asked to create login credentials to access the orientation. Progress will be tracked within Homebase, and a certificate of completion will be issued once the course is finished. ISEO will automatically be notified once the orientation has been completed.

J-1 scholar orientation must be completed prior to the J-1 registration process , as ISEO cannot validate a scholar’s J-1 SEVIS record until the orientation requirement has been met.

If you have questions about J-1 orientation or registration, please contact ischolars@ucsd.edu .

Register at ISEO

All new J-1 Scholars must register with the International Services and Engagement Office upon arrival in the U.S.

Closer to your program start date, J-1 scholars will receive an email from ISEO with a reminder to register . The registration process is completed online via iServices; when you register with our office, you will have to provide us with your contact information (address, phone number, and email address) in San Diego and documents used for entry into the U.S. Please note, this registration is only for our office and needed to validate your J-1 record. You may also need to check in and register with your department as well.

Registration instructions

J-1 scholars that are transferring their J-1 status from another U.S. institution should email their advisor to set up an appointment with an advisor. The advisor will register your record and email you your new DS-2019 from UCSD on the date of your transfer. You must print all pages of the DS-2019 and sign the acknowledgement at the bottom of page 1 that confirms you have read and understand the information on page 2.

Complete Your Glacier Record (J-1 Paid Employees Only)

Apply for a Social Security Card

We recommend that you wait 2 business days after completing the registration process at the International Services and Engagement Office ( ISEO ) to apply for a Social Security Number (SSN). When you register with ISEO , your advisor will update the Department of State records, so the 2 business days allows for the system to be updated before you apply for a SSN. Generally, all J-1 scholars in the Research Scholar, Short-term Scholar, and Professor categories are automatically eligible to apply for an SSN. J-1 Student Interns are only eligible if they are being paid by UCSD.

In order to visit the SSN office, you will need to make an appointment online or call 1-800-772-1213.

Completed Social Security Form

Form I-94 record printed from the USCBP website and/or admission entry stamp in the passport.

Additional documents by status: J-1 scholars ( non-Student Intern category): DS-2019 form The Research Scholar, Short-Term and Professor categories do not need an employer letter to be eligible for a social security number, Section 4 of the DS-2019 shows your J-1 category. Only student interns need an employment letter. The Social Security Office may confuse your request with a category that does require an employer letter. We encourage you to print out the Social Security Program Operations Manual System (POMS) which shows that your category does not require an employer letter to be eligible for a social security number: Social Security Program Operations Manual System (POMS) - RM 10211.345 "Section A" lists the categories that do not require an employer letter: https://secure.ssa.gov/poms.nsf/lnx/0110211345 J-1 scholars - Student Intern category: employment letter from ISEO advisor; contact your advisor or ischolars@ucsd.edu for this letter J-2 dependents: qualify only when they apply for J-2 Employment . J-2 dependents can apply for work authorization and a social security number at the same time.

J-1 scholars ( non-Student Intern category): DS-2019 form The Research Scholar, Short-Term and Professor categories do not need an employer letter to be eligible for a social security number, Section 4 of the DS-2019 shows your J-1 category. Only student interns need an employment letter. The Social Security Office may confuse your request with a category that does require an employer letter. We encourage you to print out the Social Security Program Operations Manual System (POMS) which shows that your category does not require an employer letter to be eligible for a social security number: Social Security Program Operations Manual System (POMS) - RM 10211.345 "Section A" lists the categories that do not require an employer letter: https://secure.ssa.gov/poms.nsf/lnx/0110211345

The Research Scholar, Short-Term and Professor categories do not need an employer letter to be eligible for a social security number, Section 4 of the DS-2019 shows your J-1 category. Only student interns need an employment letter.

The Social Security Office may confuse your request with a category that does require an employer letter. We encourage you to print out the Social Security Program Operations Manual System (POMS) which shows that your category does not require an employer letter to be eligible for a social security number:

Social Security Program Operations Manual System (POMS) - RM 10211.345 "Section A" lists the categories that do not require an employer letter: https://secure.ssa.gov/poms.nsf/lnx/0110211345

J-1 scholars - Student Intern category: employment letter from ISEO advisor; contact your advisor or ischolars@ucsd.edu for this letter

J-2 dependents: qualify only when they apply for J-2 Employment . J-2 dependents can apply for work authorization and a social security number at the same time.

More detailed information regarding the application process can be found on our identification documents webpage .

Apply for a Driver's License

The State of California’s Department of Motor Vehicles (DMV) does not recognize international drivers’ licenses. The State of California, however, does recognize your national driver license as long as it is valid and translated to English. Although the law is ambiguous when dealing with international visitors we recommend that, if you plan to drive, you get a California driver’s license immediately to avoid the risk of a traffic citation. Keep in mind that automobile insurance is required by law in the United States. Most insurance companies require a valid California driver’s license

The Department of Motor Vehicles (DMV) requires a written test and a road test. No appointment is necessary for the written test, but an appointment and a car are required for the road test. Scholars in J-1 status must have a social security number in order to apply for a license. Dependents must either show proof of ineligibility by getting a denial letter from the Social Security Administration or apply for a number, if eligible prior to applying for a license. Temporary permits can be renewed until the card is received.

More information can be found on our identification documents webpage.

Apply for a Campus Card

More information visit ISEO's Identification Documents webpage .

Confirm Health Insurance Coverage

The U.S. Department of State regulations require that visitors in J-1 and J-2 statuses maintain proper insurance coverage as a condition of their participation in the J-1 Exchange Visitor Program. [See 1(f) on back of the DS-2019].

As a J-1 Exchange Visitor, we will require proof of your health insurance coverage. See our health insurance page for more information on submitting your proof of enrollment.

For questions regarding the health insurance requirement contact ifsoinsurance@ucsd.edu .

Welcome to UC San Diego, visit our Maintaining Your J-1 Status webpage for information to help you maintain your J-1 status.

H-1B Prearrival Information

H-1B Arrival Information

J-1 Prearrival Information

J-1 Arrival Information

Prospective Scholars

Understanding SEVIS

J-1 and H-1B Comparison