Scholar Services

Other Visa Categories

Other Visa Categories at UC San Diego

The following information is provided as a guide to the various visa classifications available to international visitors at UC San Diego that are not sponsored through the International Services and Engagement Office (ISEO).

B-1 Business Status

The B-1 visa is for short-term visitors to the U.S. coming for business-related activities. As a scholar, this status allows you to engage in activities such as:

Attending academic conferences or meetings

Engaging in independent research

Consulting with colleagues or business associates

For detailed information, refer to the U.S. Department of State's B-1/B-2 guidance .

Receiving payment from UC San Diego for work or services

Engaging in practical training or employment

Enrolling in academic degree programs

If UC San Diego is benefiting from the visit—such as when the visit or research activity may lead to published work, a patent, or a discovery—using the B-1 status would conflict with the U.S. Department of State guidelines. In these instances, you may need a different visa, such as the J-1 Exchange Visitor status .

Honorarium Rule (The 9-5-6 Rule):

The visit at UC San Diego is 9 days or fewer; and

The activity occurs at UC San Diego only; and

The Scholar has not accepted similar payments from more than 5 U.S. institutions in the past 6 months

Requirements for B-1 Status

Valid Appointment or Invitation : Do you have a valid appointment or invitation to engage in business-related activities at UC San Diego? Contact the human resources office of the UC San Diego department you plan to visit to obtain an appointment or invitation.

Contact the human resources office of the UC San Diego department you plan to visit to obtain an appointment or invitation.

Valid B-1 Visa : Is your B-1 visa valid and unexpired? If you need to apply for a B-1 visa, you must apply for one at a U.S. consulate or embassy. Be sure to review the B-1 visa instructions . When planning your arrival at UC San Diego, make sure to factor in visa processing times and potential delays due to administrative processing. If you are a Chinese national, you must register with the EVUS (Electronic Visa Update System) before traveling to the U.S. on a B visa. Scholars from Visa Waiver Program (VWP) countries may not need a B-1 visa at all.

If you need to apply for a B-1 visa, you must apply for one at a U.S. consulate or embassy. Be sure to review the B-1 visa instructions . When planning your arrival at UC San Diego, make sure to factor in visa processing times and potential delays due to administrative processing.

If you are a Chinese national, you must register with the EVUS (Electronic Visa Update System) before traveling to the U.S. on a B visa.

Scholars from Visa Waiver Program (VWP) countries may not need a B-1 visa at all.

Department B-1 Letter of Support : The department will need to provide a letter of support for your B-1 entry. This letter is essential during the visa application process and can be helpful at the port of entry if a Customs and Border Protection (CBP) officer questions the purpose of your visit or whether B-1 is the appropriate status for your visit. Contact the human resources office in the UC San Diego department you plan to visit to request the B-1 letter of support .

Review the U.S. Department of State B-1 guidance to prepare to enter the U.S.

Have the B-1 letter of support from UC San Diego

Be ready to explain the visit as academic or professional —not for employment or study

Be able to demonstrate ties to your home country , such as employment or enrollment in a degree program abroad, and an intent to return.

Be able to communicate and prove how you will financially support yourself during your stay (e.g., personal funds, home institution support, or a government grant—must not be U.S.-based wages or salary)

Specifically request B-1 status at the port of entry (not B-2, which is for tourism)

After Arrival at UC San Diego in B-1 status Your UC San Diego department human resources representative will log into iServices to send you an invitation to complete the Other Visa Status: Scholar Registration . This allows ISEO to stay informed about B-1 Scholars on campus so we can include you in events, workshops, and important communications—such as updates to immigration policies that may affect you or notifications in case of an emergency.

Duration of Stay and Extensions B-1 status is typically granted for up to six months. You may request an extension for an additional six months if needed. Extensions are subject to approval by U.S. immigration authorities.

B-2 Tourist Status

Tourism : Exploring the U.S. or visiting places of interest

Visiting Family or Friends : Spending time with family members or friends in the U.S.

Medical Purposes : Seeking medical treatment or consultations

This status is not suitable if you plan to engage in academic work, conduct research, or participate in any employment-related activities . For more information, refer to the U.S. Department of State's B-1/B-2 instructions .

Proof of Intent to Return : Provide documentation showing you will return to your home country after your visit, such as evidence of employment, school enrollment, or family ties.

Sufficient Funds : You must demonstrate that you can financially support yourself during your stay in the U.S. without resorting to unauthorized employment.

F-1 CPT/OPT/STEM OPT

F-1 students may be eligible for employment authorization through Curricular Practical Training (CPT), Optional Practical Training (OPT), or the STEM OPT Extension, provided the activity is related to their degree program. Employment authorization must be valid before employment begins and must remain valid throughout the period of employment.

Curricular Practical Training (CPT) : Approved CPT must be listed on your Form I-20 and must identify UC San Diego as the employer for a specific authorized employment period. Employment is only authorized for the dates listed on the CPT authorization.

Optional Practical Training (OPT) : Must have a valid Employment Authorization Document (EAD card) before beginning employment. Employment is only authorized during the validity dates listed on the EAD card.

STEM OPT Extension : Employment on a STEM OPT Extension must have either: A valid STEM OPT EAD card, or Proof that a timely filed Form I-765 STEM OPT Extension application was received by USCIS before the current OPT EAD card expired.A timely filed STEM OPT Extension application automatically extends employment authorization for up to 180 days beyond the expiration date listed on the current OPT EAD card while the STEM OPT application remains pending with USCIS. ISEO has general guidelines for how to complete the employer sections , see F-1 STEM OPT Protocol page , for specific requirements, deadlines, and questions regarding the form please contact your F-1 program sponsor (institution that issued your I-20)

A valid STEM OPT EAD card, or

Proof that a timely filed Form I-765 STEM OPT Extension application was received by USCIS before the current OPT EAD card expired.A timely filed STEM OPT Extension application automatically extends employment authorization for up to 180 days beyond the expiration date listed on the current OPT EAD card while the STEM OPT application remains pending with USCIS.

ISEO has general guidelines for how to complete the employer sections , see F-1 STEM OPT Protocol page , for specific requirements, deadlines, and questions regarding the form please contact your F-1 program sponsor (institution that issued your I-20)

UC San Diego departments may employ F-1s on CPT, OPT, or STEM OPT without being the sponsor of the F-1 status.

ISEO’s role for F-1 employees on CPT, OPT, or STEM OPT is limited to UC San Diego’s responsibilities as the employer . ISEO does not serve as the student’s F-1 program sponsor unless UC San Diego issued the Form I-20.

As the employer, UC San Diego is responsible for: Reviewing employment authorization documents for I-9 compliance Maintaining required employment records Participating in E-Verify for STEM OPT employment

Reviewing employment authorization documents for I-9 compliance

Maintaining required employment records

Participating in E-Verify for STEM OPT employment

Program Sponsor Responsibilities (School That Issued the I-20):

The school that issued the Form I-20 remains responsible for the student’s SEVIS record and F-1 status maintenance, including: Issuing and updating the Form I-20 Authorizing CPT Recommending OPT and STEM OPT Providing travel signatures Advising on F-1 regulations and status maintenance Managing SEVIS reporting requirements

Issuing and updating the Form I-20

Recommending OPT and STEM OPT

Providing travel signatures

Advising on F-1 regulations and status maintenance

Managing SEVIS reporting requirements

F-1s whose Form I-20 was issued by another institution must continue working directly with their school’s international office regarding immigration status questions and reporting requirements.

O-1 Extraordinary Ability

O-1 status is available to persons who have demonstrated a record of national or international acclaim, a level of expertise indicating that the person is one of the small percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor.

All O-1 petitions require Department Chair support and must be coordinated by ISEO, with legal work done by an immigration law firm that has a retention agreement on file with the University of California, Office of the President.

An O-1 visa petition will be filed only under the following conditions:

The international visitor meets the qualification of "extraordinary ability" and is able to provide substantial documentation required for the O-1;

The international visitor is subject to the 2-year home requirement, is unable to obtain a waiver, and is therefore precluded from obtaining H-1B status; and

The international visitor will be paid a wage that is consistent with the designation of an individual of extraordinary ability.

The international visitor must realize that he/she may have to travel outside the United States to obtain the O-1 visa once the petition is approved in order to re-enter the U.S. in O-1 status with employment authorization.

O-3 dependents may engage in part or full-time study, not permitted to be employed in the U.S.

USCIS website for general information

Eligibility criteria (PDF)

TN Workers (Mexican and Canadian Citizens)

Requesting TN Status

The first step to obtaining TN Status, requires that you have the departmental TN invitation letter that references the appropriate NAFTA occupational title (Canadian TNs will not need visa stamps, but will need this document to apply for admission). Certain healthcare professionals will also need to present the Visa Screen at the port of entry. The list of TN approved professions is not intended to cover every possible appointment, as such not all positions qualify for TN status—for example, sonographer roles do not fall under the approved professions.

The first step to obtaining TN Status, requires that you have the departmental TN invitation letter that references the appropriate NAFTA occupational title (Canadian TNs will not need visa stamps, but will need this document to apply for admission). Certain healthcare professionals will also need to present the Visa Screen at the port of entry. The list of TN approved professions is not intended to cover every possible appointment, as such not all positions qualify for TN status—for example, sonographer roles do not fall under the approved professions.

General Responsibilities for Maintaining TN Status

Employment : You are authorized to stay in the U.S. to work in the UC San Diego position described in your employment letter, through the duration indicated on your electronic or paper Form I-94 (or I-797 approval notice if status changed/extended inside the U.S.)

Job changes : Significant changes in your job duties may require filing an amended petition with USCIS or traveling and reentering prior to those changes taking place; notify ISO immediately of any anticipated changes.

Occasional lectures and consultation : A TN may not consult outside of UC San Diego unless employed by an additional, concurrent employer. In regards to occasional lectures, this is possible as long as you do not receive compensation. Please refer additional questions to an ISEO advisor.

Study : a TN may enroll in classes as long as they are incidental to their employment.

Taxes : Individuals in TN status are required to file both state and federal taxes and are taxed on worldwide income if they meet the substantial presence test .

Change of Employer/Concurrent Employment

Change of employer : to change employers, the new employer must either file an I-129 petition with USCIS and have it approved prior to the TN starting employment, or the TN must travel and re-enter with the new employer's employment letter.

Concurrent employment : it is possible to have TN status with more than one employer; the new employer may either file an I-129 petition with USCIS and have it approved prior to the TN starting employment, or the TN must travel and re-enter with the new employer's employment letter

Dependents and Dependent Employment

Overview : spouses and unmarried minor children (under 21 years of age) are eligible for TD status.

Admission/visa : If not accompanying the principal TN, Canadian citizen dependents may apply for TD status upon admission to the U.S. with a copy of the principal's electronic or paper Form I-94, employment letter, and marriage/birth certificate. Mexican and Canadian non-citizen dependents of TN principals will require TD visas and may apply for these with copies of the principal's I-94 card, employment letter, and marriage/birth certificate, prior to applying for admission upon entry.  If accompanying the principal, proof of relationship and visas, if necessary, will be required upon entry.

Application process : dependents may apply for change to or extension of TD status through Form I-539, based on derivative status of the principal TN.  See USCIS instructions and form for further information.

Work : TD dependents are not allowed to work in the U.S.

Study : TD dependents may study in the U.S., full- or part-time.  Dependents should weigh the benefits of changing their status to F-1 versus remaining in TD status.

WB – Waiver Business (Visa Waiver Program - VWP)

WB is a short-term status for business and professional activities under the Visa Waiver Program (VWP). WT/WB status is often referred to as ESTA ; however, ESTA is the Electronic System for Travel Authorization (ESTA) visitors must use to obtain authorization before entering the U.S. under the Visa Waiver Program. ESTA is not a visa, but a required pre-travel clearance linked to WT/WB admission. It is suitable for international visitors coming to UC San Diego for non-employment activities related to independent academic or professional work. The maximum allowed stay is 90 days ; no extensions or changes of status are allowed.

See the list of eligible countries .

Attending academic conferences or meetings

Engaging in independent research

Consulting with colleagues or business associates

For detailed information, refer to the U.S. Department of State's WB Guidance .

When Should WB Status NOT Be Used?

Receiving payment from UC San Diego for work or services

Engaging in practical training or employment

Enrolling in academic degree programs

If UC San Diego is benefiting from the visit—such as when the visit or research activity may lead to published work, a patent, or a discovery—using the WB status would conflict with the U.S. Department of State guidelines. In these instances, you may need a different status, such as the J-1 Exchange Visitor status .

Reimbursement WB must be non-salaried: they cannot be paid for services or work.  Scholars in WB status may be reimbursed for reasonable business costs such as travel. If their activity on campus lasts no longer than nine days from beginning to end, they can be granted an honorarium.

Honorarium Rule (The 9-5-6 Rule):

The visit at UC San Diego is 9 days or fewer; and

The activity occurs at UC San Diego only; and

The Scholar has not accepted similar payments from more than 5 U.S. institutions in the past 6 months

Requirements for WB Status

Citizenship/Nationality: Must be a citizen or national of a country designated under the Visa Waiver Program (VWP) .

Passport Validity: Passport from a VWP-approved country must be valid for at least six months beyond the planned date of departure from the U.S.

Purpose of Visit: Must intend to engage in an approved visitor activity.

Valid Appointment or Invitation : Do you have a valid appointment or invitation to engage in business-related activities at UC San Diego? Contact the human resources office of the UC San Diego department you plan to visit to obtain an appointment or invitation.

Contact the human resources office of the UC San Diego department you plan to visit to obtain an appointment or invitation.

Department WB Letter of Support : The department will need to provide a letter of support for your WB entry. This letter is essential during the visa application process and can be helpful at the port of entry if a Customs and Border Protection (CBP) officer questions the purpose of your visit or whether WB is the appropriate status for your visit. Contact the human resources office in the UC San Diego department you plan to visit to request the WB letter of support .

You are not eligible for the Visa Waiver Program if you have: Dual nationality with Cuba, Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, Iran, Iraq, Sudan, or Syria. Traveled to or been present in any of the following countries on or after March 1, 2011 : Democratic People’s Republic of Korea (North Korea) Iran Iraq Libya Somalia Sudan Syria Yemen Traveled to or been present in Cuba on or after January 12, 2021 . Exceptions: travel for diplomatic or military purposes in the service of a VWP country.)

Dual nationality with Cuba, Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, Iran, Iraq, Sudan, or Syria.

Traveled to or been present in any of the following countries on or after March 1, 2011 : Democratic People’s Republic of Korea (North Korea) Iran Iraq Libya Somalia Sudan Syria Yemen

Democratic People’s Republic of Korea (North Korea)

Traveled to or been present in Cuba on or after January 12, 2021 .

Exceptions: travel for diplomatic or military purposes in the service of a VWP country.)

Review the U.S. Department of State WB guidance to prepare to enter the U.S.

Valid passport (valid at least six months beyond the return date)

Approved ESTA (Electronic System for Travel Authorization) registration. There is a fee of approximately $40.

Department Letter of support (for WB visits to UC San Diego)

Evidence of intent to return to the home country (e.g., round-trip airline ticket)

Be able to demonstrate ties to your home country , such as employment or enrollment in a degree program abroad, and an intent to return.

Be able to communicate and prove how you will financially support yourself during your stay (e.g., personal funds, home institution support, or a government grant—must not be U.S.-based wages or salary)

Explain the visit as business (WB) and request the correct status ( WB for business)

After Arrival at UC San Diego in WB status Your UC San Diego department human resources representative will log into iServices to send you an invitation to complete the Other Visa Status: Scholar Registration . This allows ISEO to stay informed about WB Scholars on campus so we can include you in events, workshops, and important communications—such as updates to immigration policies that may affect you or notifications in case of an emergency.

Duration of Stay and Extensions WB status is typically granted for up to 90 days; n o grace period, extension, or change of status is available.

Additional Information For more information, please visit the WT & WB Visitor page .

WT – Waiver Tourist (Visa Waiver Program - VWP)

WT is a short-term status for tourism and personal visits under the Visa Waiver Program (VWP). WT/WB status is often referred to as ESTA ; however, ESTA is the Electronic System for Travel Authorization (ESTA) visitors must use to obtain authorization before entering the U.S. under the Visa Waiver Program. ESTA is not a visa, but a required pre-travel clearance linked to WT/WB admission. WT status is not appropriate for academic or business-related activities at UC San Diego. Maximum stay is 90 days; no extensions or change of status are allowed.

WT is strictly for tourism/personal purposes; UC San Diego should not issue support letters for WT.

What is WT Status? The WT status is for individuals visiting the U.S. for tourism, recreation, or medical purposes. You may use the WT for activities such as:

Tourism : Exploring the U.S. or visiting places of interest

Visiting Family or Friends : Spending time with family members or friends in the U.S.

Medical Purposes : Seeking medical treatment or consultations

This status is not suitable if you plan to engage in academic work, conduct research, or participate in any employment-related activities . For more information, refer to the U.S. Department of State's WT instructions .

Requirements for WT Status For WT status, ensure you review the WT guidance . Key requirements include:

Must be a citizen or national of a country designated under the Visa Waiver Program (VWP) .

Proof of Intent to Return : Provide documentation showing you will return to your home country after your visit, such as evidence of employment, school enrollment, or family ties.

Sufficient Funds : You must demonstrate that you can financially support yourself during your stay in the U.S. without resorting to unauthorized employment.

You are not eligible for the Visa Waiver Program if you have: Dual nationality with Cuba, Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, Iran, Iraq, Sudan, or Syria. Traveled to or been present in any of the following countries on or after March 1, 2011 : Democratic People’s Republic of Korea (North Korea) Iran Iraq Libya Somalia Sudan Syria Yemen Traveled to or been present in Cuba on or after January 12, 2021 . Exceptions: travel for diplomatic or military purposes in the service of a VWP country.)

Dual nationality with Cuba, Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, Iran, Iraq, Sudan, or Syria.

Traveled to or been present in any of the following countries on or after March 1, 2011 : Democratic People’s Republic of Korea (North Korea) Iran Iraq Libya Somalia Sudan Syria Yemen

Democratic People’s Republic of Korea (North Korea)

Traveled to or been present in Cuba on or after January 12, 2021 .

Exceptions: travel for diplomatic or military purposes in the service of a VWP country.)

Review the U.S. Department of State WB guidance to prepare to enter the U.S.

Valid passport (valid at least six months beyond the return date)

Approved ESTA (Electronic System for Travel Authorization) registration. There is a fee of approximately $40.

Be able to explain and show documentation for the purpose of your visit

Evidence of intent to return to the home country (e.g., round-trip airline ticket)

Be able to demonstrate ties to your home country , such as employment or enrollment in a degree program abroad, and an intent to return.

Be able to communicate and prove how you will financially support yourself during your stay (e.g., personal funds, home institution support, or a government grant—must not be U.S.-based wages or salary)

Duration of Stay and Extensions WT status is typically granted for up to 90 days; n o grace period, extension, or change of status is available.

Additional Information For more information, please visit the WT & WB Visitor page .

DACA (Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals)

DACA-related matters can be complex, particularly when individuals are exploring options beyond their current DACA, including potential pathways to work authorization. For this reason, individuals are encouraged to seek guidance from a qualified immigration attorney.

Our colleagues at the Undocumented Student Services Center are subject matter experts, and their team offered to assist UC San Diego employees in navigating DACA-related questions and connecting individuals to appropriate legal resources.

UC San Diego employees may contact the Undocumented Student Services Center for guidance and referrals: Immigration Legal Services .

Scholar Services

H-1B Specialty Occupation

Permanent Residency

Other Visa Categories

Travel and Visa Application

iServices Instructions for Scholars