Primary Care Providers

PCPs are established at the time of your initial visit. If you would like to change your PCP, please call (858) 534-3300 to speak to one of our Administrative Assistants or make a request through Ask-a-Nurse in MyStudentChart . P rofiles of our physicians and nurse practitioners are available to view online so you can choose a provider that best suits your needs.

Clinic Chaperone Policy: Patients may request to have a chaperone present for any type of exam for any reason, including religious or cultural beliefs. Chaperones can enhance patient comfort and provide reassurance throughout the exam. Refer to the UC San Diego Chaperone Policy for more information.

Making an Appointment

To make an appointment , you can self-schedule online , call your provider's group directly, or call the main scheduling line (858) 534-3300.

For each appointment, please anticipate being in the clinic for at least one hour to allow for check-in, the visit with the provider, completion of any labs, x-rays, or additional testing, and obtaining pharmacy items if needed.

Please plan to arrive 15 minutes before your scheduled appointment. If you are unable to attend your scheduled appointment, please cancel with at least four hours notice to avoid a $20 no-show fee.

General primary care visits are appropriate for most conditions. Routine gynecological exams, administrative physicals, minor surgical procedures, and complex medical concerns may require a longer appointment. ​

Same-day appointments are available for more urgent problems. Call early in the day for best availability.

Administrative physical exams for employment, DMV, diving, or school applications should be scheduled by calling our main scheduling line (858) 534-3300 . These exams require longer appointments, and additional fees apply .

Travel appointments are available for students planning personal travel and those applying to campus education abroad programs. You will need to know the country/countries where you will be traveling as different countries require different preparation. You will also need to know the name of the campus program you are traveling with, if applicable. Travel appointments can be made by calling our main scheduling line (858) 534-3300. Additional fees apply .

Not sure if you need a primary care appointment? Our Where to Get Care guide can assist you. You can also call our Nurse Advice line at (858) 534-3300 or message Ask-a-Nurse through MyStudentChart .

Cost of Services

Clinical Laboratory

Gender-Affirming Care

Radiology (X-ray)

Reproductive Health

Travel Clearance