Frequently Asked Questions

Table of Contents

After-Hours and Emergency Care

Allergy Injections

General Information About SHS

Insurance and Payments

After-Hours and Emergency Care

How do patients access care when SHS is closed?

See options for after-hours care and emergency care in the community and virtually.

How do patients know whether to make an appointment, walk in to Urgent Care, or go to the emergency department?

Does SHS offer telehealth appointments when the building is closed?

Allergy Injections

Can patients get regular allergy shots at SHS?

SHS does not provide allergy injections. Students with UC SHIP should schedule an appointment with one of our providers to obtain a referral to a local clinic.

Will details of medical care be kept confidential, even from parents or guardians?

California state law and the federal Health Insurance Portability and Accounting Act (HIPAA) of 1996 protect the confidentiality of communications between health professionals and their patients. SHS will not discuss information about patients with others without express consent of the patient, except as required by law. Learn more about privacy practices and access to information .

If patient insurance is covered by a parent, guardian, or spouse, how can patients keep their information private?

Patients with insurance coverage through a parent, guardian, or spouse can visit the Student Health and Well-Being Insurance Forms page to access the Insurance Confidentiality form.

Can student workers in the Student Health building read medical charts and know about care provided to patients?

Students do not work in any clinical areas and are not permitted access to open or read patient medical charts. Medical records are strictly confidential.

How do patients change personal information in MyStudentChart?

Login to MyStudentChart and choose Menu > Personal Information > Details About Me > Edit to update local address, lived name, phone number, emergency contact, and more.

How can students schedule a flu shot?

Influenza (Flu) vaccines are available for same-day or next day appointments in the SHS Nurses’ Clinic . See the Cost of Services page for current prices.

What should students do if their roommate is sick with the flu?

Learn more about basic flu prevention techniques and self-care .

Are flu shots available during a primary care appointment?

Yes. Students should talk with their provider if they are interested in receiving a flu shot during their appointment.

Is there a charge for a flu shot for those who have UC SHIP?

All students with UC SHIP can receive the flu vaccine at no charge. There is a small fee for students with private insurance or with RAFT . See the Cost of Services page for current prices.

General Information About Student Health Services (SHS)

When is SHS open?

To view SHS hours visit the Hours & Location page.

The SHS clinic is located on Library Walk, west of the Price Center, south of Geisel Library.

See the Contact Us page for mailing address, physical address, phone numbers, and fax numbers.

Are the health services at SHS free?

Routine appointments are covered for all registered students with UC SHIP . For students without UC SHIP insurance coverage, there are modest charges for visits, laboratory tests, x-rays, and specialty appointments. See Cost of Services for current pricing.

Do patients have to pay for services at SHS at the time they’re seen, or can they be billed later?

Depending on insurance and other criteria, there may be charges for some services/products at SHS. Charges can be billed directly to the student account, unless the patient chooses to pay by credit card at the time of the visit.

Can patients who do not have UC SHIP still be seen at SHS?

All currently registered UCSD students can be seen at SHS, regardless of insurance coverage. There are fees for some services. See Cost of Services for current pricing.

Can Extension students, ESL students, students from other UC campuses, or family members of UCSD students/staff/faculty be seen at SHS?

Only registered UCSD students or actively enrolled students from other UC campuses are eligible to receive services at SHS. Because of a special agreement, the only exception is that Division of Extended Studies: International Programs students may be seen at SHS. No other Extension students may be seen. See Cost of Services for current pricing.

How do patients make an appointment at SHS?

Please see the Appointments page to learn more about making an appointment or call (858) 534-3300 to speak with a scheduler. Online scheduling is available for many appointments using MyStudentChart .

SHS has a walk-in Urgent Care available for illnesses or injuries that require prompt attention; no appointment is needed.

Can patients choose their health care provider?

Yes. Learn more about primary care provider assignments .

Does SHS have an Urgent Care?

Yes, SHS has a walk-in Urgent Care available for illnesses or injuries that require prompt attention; no appointment is needed. Urgent Care fees apply for those without UC SHIP.

How do patients cancel an appointment?

To cancel a scheduled appointment, please call SHS at (858) 534-3300 during business hours or use MyStudentChart to self-cancel. Please cancel with at least 4 hours’ notice to avoid a no-show fee.

How do patients know they will receive quality health care at SHS?

How often should patients have a general checkup?

Patients should message their primary care provider via MyStudentChart or call the Nurse Advice Line at (858) 534-3300 for medical recommendations. Appointments are available for a well check to review personal risk factors and health recommendations.

How can patients get a referral to a specialist?

Most common medical conditions can be managed by a primary care provider at SHS. However, if specialist care is indicated, SHS providers can provide a referral to see other specialists within the local community. For those enrolled in UC SHIP, a referral by SHS is required in order for a specialist to be covered by insurance; learn how to use UC SHIP . Students with outside insurance should check their plan, as some plans will require a referral by a private primary care provider.

Are immunizations available at SHS?

Yes, all basic and travel vaccines are available at SHS Nurses’ Clinic . See the Cost of Services page for current prices.

What are the recommended immunizations for college students?

See required and strongly recommended vaccinations on the Health Requirements page.

What are the UC health requirements for incoming students?

Read about the Incoming Health Requirements for newly admitted UC students.

What happens to students who don't complete the health requirement process?

Students who do not complete the process will have a hold placed on their student account which will prevent registration for classes.

Can Hepatitis B and Tuberculosis assessments be completed at SHS?

Yes, the 3-dose Hepatitis B series and tuberculosis screening can be completed with an appointment at SHS Nurses’ Clinic .

Is the HPV vaccine available at SHS? How much does it cost?

Yes, Gardasil, the vaccine for human papilloma virus (HPV) , is available at SHS Nurses’ Clinic . See the Cost of Services page for current prices.

How can students access their immunization records?

Current students and recent graduates can access their medical records in MyStudentChart . Visit the Medical Records page to learn more about requesting medical records, including immunization records.

Insurance and Payments

What is UC SHIP?

Can students who waived UC SHIP still seek care at SHS?

Do patients with UC SHIP need a referral for care outside of SHS?

Most common medical conditions can be managed by a primary care provider at SHS. However, if specialist care is indicated, SHS providers can provide a referral to see other specialists within the local community. For those enrolled in UC SHIP, a referral by SHS is required in order for a specialist to be covered by insurance; learn how to use UC SHIP . Students with outside insurance should check their plan, as some plans will require a referral by a private primary care provider.

How can students get more information about UC SHIP?

Please see the Insurance section of the Student Health and Well-Being website for more information.

How do patients pay for services?

Co-pays and other charges are billed directly to the student's account. If the student chooses to pay by credit card at the time of visit, they can do so through the SHW Cashier. See Cost of Services for current prices.

How do patients know if they’re charged for something?

Charges will be listed on the student account under Billing and Payment. In order to protect the confidentiality of patients, the billing will NOT include any information regarding diagnosis, specific medications, or testing.

How do patients view lab results or request a copy?

What does it mean to fast before a lab appointment?

Learn more about patient preparation at the SHS Clinical Laboratory .

Can patients with private health care providers have lab work done at SHS?

The SHS lab does not accept or process lab orders from any providers outside of SHS or UC San Diego Health. Patients with orders from outside providers should go directly to a reference laboratory such as Quest or LabCorp. Results and billing will be managed by the facility where the labs are performed.

Does SHS lab test for sexually transmitted infections?

Yes. Learn more about STI testing at SHS or general STI health information .

Does SHS do HIV testing? Is it confidential or anonymous?

Confidential HIV testing is available at SHS. Learn more about confidential HIV testing or general HIV health information .

Anonymous HIV testing is not available at Student Health. The San Diego County Department of Public Health and other community clinics offer free anonymous HIV antibody testing.

Are pregnancy tests available at SHS?

Yes. Learn more about pregnancy testing .

Where is the Pharmacy located?

SHS Pharmacy is located on the first floor of the SHS clinic. Both prescriptions and over-the-counter (OTC) medications are available at the Pharmacy. The Pharmacy offers in-person pickup and medication delivery via FedEx. Prescriptions from outside providers can be filled at SHS Pharmacy. Please contact Pharmacy at (858) 534-2135 for more information.

How can patients request a prescription refill?

Patients can self-request a refill under Medications in MyStudentChart or call the SHS Pharmacy at (858) 534-2135.

Can patients use insurance to pay for prescriptions?

Students enrolled in UC SHIP may use their insurance to purchase prescriptions at the SHS pharmacy. See the current insurance brochure for co-pays and information about purchasing prescriptions outside of SHS.

Can students with RAFT use the SHS Pharmacy?

Students with RAFT can use the Pharmacy to fill prescriptions but will pay a cash rate (discounted). All registered students can purchase OTC medications regardless of insurance coverage.

Is testing for sexually transmitted infections (STIs) available at SHS?

Does SHS do HIV testing? Is it confidential or anonymous?

Confidential HIV testing is available at SHS. Learn more about confidential HIV testing or general HIV health information .

Anonymous HIV testing is not available at Student Health. The San Diego County Department of Public Health and other community clinics offer free anonymous HIV antibody testing.

Are prescriptions for birth control pills available?

Make an appointment with a Reproductive Health provider to be seen for any birth control needs. For those who have never taken birth control pills, reviewing the Sexual Health Info PowerPoint and reading more about birth control options is highly recommended.

What should patients do if they forget a birth control pill? What if they have forgotten 3 or 4?

When should patients start having regular (annual) gynecological exams and Pap smears?

Patients should message their primary care provider via MyStudentChart or call the Nurse Advice Line at (858) 534-3300 for medical guidance. Appointments are available for annual gynecological exams at SHS which consist of a general health history and physical exam, and a breast and pelvic exam. We recommend that students who have never had contraception counseling and/or a gynecological exam review the Sexual Health Info PowerPoint prior to their visit. Learn more about Reproductive Health .

How much does it cost to have a Pap smear?

See the Cost of Services page for current prices.

Are pregnancy tests available at SHS?

Yes. Learn more about pregnancy testing .

Is treatment available for yeast infections and other vaginal concerns?

Yes. Learn more about Vaginal Infections and make an appointment with a Reproductive Health provider for support with vaginal concerns.

Where can students get condoms?

Condoms are available for free using The Condom Concierge at Health Promotion Services (HPS) and may be available in other campus locations like the Cross-Cultural Center , LGBT Resource Center , and Women's Center . Condoms can also be purchased at Target on campus, online, and at drugstores and grocery stores off-campus.

Are tuberculosis (TB) tests available for school or job applications?

An appointment for TB testing can be scheduled with SHS Clinical Laboratory or Nurses’ Clinic . See the Cost of Services page for current prices.

What are the steps to take if a tuberculosis (TB) test result is positive?

A positive skin test for TB means a person has had exposure to the TB bacteria. Please login to MyStudentChart and choose Menu > Student Health Ask a Nurse to reach out to the nursing team for next steps and additional guidance. Further education can be found on the CDC TB website .

Does SHS give travel advice?

Does SHS provide travel health clearance for study abroad programs?

Yes, travel clearance appointments are available with SHS medical providers. See the Cost of Services page for current prices. Appointment scheduling varies by program and travel date. Please call SHS at (858) 534-3300 to speak to a travel scheduler for more information.

Urgent Care & After-Hours Care

Chaperone Policy

Health Requirements

Interpreter Services

Parents & Families

UC SHIP Dental Plan

Where to Get Care