Scholar Services

iServices Instructions for Scholars

Maintain your Record with ISEO

Although you may not currently have an active request that ISEO is working on, it is necessary to always keep your iSevices updated with the most current information. Having your record updated with the most current information will help you maintain compliance with your immigration status and keep ISEO informed of any changes that could affect your current or future immigration status.

Updating your information in other campus based systems (i.e. UcPath, Human Resources, RSAS, VGS) does not notify ISEO.

Name Change (J-1 Scholars)

If there is an update to your legal name or gender as reflected on your passport OR if your preferred name has changed, please let us know in iServices using the J-1 Name Change Request e-form.

For legal changes reflected on your passport, please make sure to have your passport available as you will be asked to enter your passport number and expiration date along with any new information.

For changes to your preferred name, no passport information or proof will be required. This update will reflect in ISEO's communications to you, except where we are required by law to match your passport, such as on the DS-2019.

Contact Information Changes

In between requests you may need to update your address or contact information with ISEO. You can do this in iServices:

J-1 Scholars: Please update this via the J-1 Scholar Contact Information Update Form.

Employment Based Scholars: Please update this via the Employment Based Scholar Contact Information update form

Please note that all international faculty and scholars must notify ISEO of address changes within 10 days of the information changing, per immigration regulations.

Follow the detailed instructions on our Address and Contact Information page .

Received a New Passport and/or I-94

If you receive a new passport or I-94, please complete the following form in iServices and upload an image of the new biographical page into iServices.

J-1 Scholars : Complete the J-1 Scholar Update Immigration Documents form .

Employment Based Scholars : Complete the Employment-Based Immigration Document Update form.

Please be prepared to enter information for your new documents, including passport and/or I-94 numbers, issue, and expiration dates.

Early Departure/Separation from UC San Diego

If you are ending your appointment at UC San Diego early, your visa status must be shortened accordingly. Please update your iServices record by completing the appropriate form:

J-1 Scholars: J-1 Scholar Early Departure form

Employment Based Scholars: Employment Based Scholar Resignation form

If you are ending your appointment at UC San Diego as planned and on the same end date noted on your DS-2019 or USCIS approval notice, then no action is needed. ISEO will automatically close out your record.

Began 212e Waiver Process (for J-1 only)

Please email ischolars@ucsd.edu if either of the following apply to you:

Received the U.S. Department of State Waiver Recommendation.

Include the U.S. Department of State Waiver Recommendation as an attachment in the email.

Received the I-612 Waiver Approval Notice.

Include your I-612 Waiver Approval Notice as an attachment in the email.

Applied for Permanent Residency (Pending)

Please email ischolars@ucsd.edu to notify your advisor if you have applied for Permanent Residency I-130/I-140 and/or I-485 (include supplemental forms I-765 and I-131, if submitted).

Attach all Receipt and Approval notices associated with your permanent residency submission, such as I-130/I-140 and/or I-485 (include supplemental forms I-765 and I-131, if submitted) in the email.

Obtained Permanent Residency (Green Card Issued)

Once you become a Permanent Resident (PR), your record is closed out with ISEO, even if you will continue to work with UC San Diego. ISEO is also required to end your current status (ex. J-1, H-1B, etc.) as you are now a Permanent Resident of the U.S.

To notify ISEO, please use the Permanent Residency Granted e-form in iServices. When submitting this e-form, we will request a copy of your PR card, so please have this ready.

For more information, visit our Notify ISEO of Change to Permanent Residency page.

iServices Instructions for Scholars

Initial J-1 Requests

J-1 Extension Request

H-1B/E-3/TN Initial Requests

H-1B/E-3/TN Extension/Amendment Requests

Register with ISEO

J-1 Scholar Insurance Verification

J-1/J-2 Travel Signature

J-1 Scholar Out of Country Notification

Update Contact Information

Replacement DS-2019

J-1 Student Intern

J-1 Occasional Lecture/Consultation

Separation/Departure/Transfer Out

Change to Permanent Residency

Other Status Registration