Student Services

Working in the U.S.

F-1 Curricular Practical Training (CPT)

F-1 Curricular Practical Training (CPT)

(This page has a friendly link that's easy to remember: CPT . ucsd.edu )

Curricular Practical Training (CPT) is a type of employment authorization for F-1 students. It is an opportunity to participate in a paid position off-campus in your field of study during the time that you are pursuing your degree.

Do not start working until you have your CPT I-20 to show to your employer. CPT cannot be backdated and any delays to your CPT processing may delay your authorized CPT start date.

Step 1: Learn about CPT

Curricular Practical Training (CPT) is a type of employment authorization for F-1 students. It is an opportunity to participate in a paid position off-campus in your field of study during the time you are pursuing your degree.

As an F-1 student, the priority and purpose of your stay in the U.S. is to engage in full-time studies. Engaging in CPT is a benefit for F-1 students who are making normal progress towards completion of their academic programs and are maintaining a valid visa status. Your CPT approval is at the discretion of ISEO and your academic department. In addition, eligibility and the application process will differ per institution and may be subject to change.

To apply for CPT employment authorization, eligible F-1 students must first secure a job offer in a position related to their major. They must also enroll in a course (or cooperative program) and receive credit for the work they will do. Students must submit a separate application to engage in CPT each quarter and wait for an updated Form I-20 from ISEO reflecting CPT approval on the second page before starting work.

Before Starting:

Review this entire website for CPT eligibility and considerations.

If possible, plan a quarter in advance as the application process may take time.

Do NOT start working until you've received CPT Approval from ISEO (updated Form I-20).

Consider impacts of your participation on your academic progress, graduate funding, and on-campus appointments.

Understand that it is THE STUDENT's responsibility to maintain their F-1 full-time enrollment requirements and complete course requirements.

Understand that it is THE STUDENT's responsibility to balance their CPT employment with on-campus employment obligations.

Understand that is THE STUDENT's responsibility to monitor the number of days they are authorized to participate in CPT at each level of study to ensure eligibility for post-completion OPT.

Approval of CPT is at the discretion of academic departments and ISEO.

What types of employment require CPT Authorization?

During the time an F-1 student is pursuing their degree, all paid off-campus employment will require CPT Authorization . To apply for CPT, the employment must meet the following requirements:

The position is directly related to the student's major field of study (minors do not count).

The student's work will be supervised (students may not be self-employed and must have a direct supervisor managing their work).

The student is working for a U.S. employer or for a foreign employer who has an established office/branch within the U.S. and can supervise employees remotely.

CPT is NOT required for:

Unpaid internships

Volunteer positions

On-campus positions

Working in the U.S. after graduation (post-completion employment)

Employment for companies outside of the U.S.: CPT cannot be authorized for foreign based employers unless they have an established office/branch within the U.S. and can supervise employees remotely.

CPT cannot be authorized for foreign based employers unless they have an established office/branch within the U.S. and can supervise employees remotely.

Note, if you will be completing the entire duration of your employment from outside the U.S., CPT is not required unless your employer requires it. In these situations, make sure you communicate with your employer that you will not be in F-1 status and where you will be located, as there may be tax implications. ISEO may not be able to advise in these areas and recommend you consult an immigration attorney .

If you have question about your particular employment and if CPT is required, contact an ISEO Advisor .

Eligibility for CPT:

In order to be eligible for CPT, you must fulfill all of the following criteria:

Hold a valid passport : Your passport should be valid for at least six months beyond the requested date of the CPT.

Your passport should be valid for at least six months beyond the requested date of the CPT.

Have entered the U.S. and hold a valid Form I-94

Maintain F-1 status : You must have an active SEVIS record to be authorized for CPT. You also must be enrolled full time during the academic year (Fall, Winter, and Spring terms), or have an authorized Reduced Course Load . Note that graduate students are not authorized to participate in CPT while on filing fee status .

You must have an active SEVIS record to be authorized for CPT. You also must be enrolled full time during the academic year (Fall, Winter, and Spring terms), or have an authorized Reduced Course Load . Note that graduate students are not authorized to participate in CPT while on filing fee status .

Continuing Student : You must be currently pursuing your degree. CPT cannot be authorized after completing your program. Your I-20 should have a completion date beyond your requested CPT end date.

You must be currently pursuing your degree. CPT cannot be authorized after completing your program. Your I-20 should have a completion date beyond your requested CPT end date.

Meet the One Academic Year Requirement for Practical Training : You must have been enrolled on a full-time basis for at least one academic year (3 quarters) on the same SEVIS number. Exceptions to the one academic year requirement are provided for students enrolled in graduate studies that require immediate participation in CPT. The following describe other potential ways students accrue time towards the one academic year requirement: SEVIS Transfer : You may use time spent in another SEVIS approved university or college if you were enrolled full-time and did a timely SEVIS transfer using the same SEVIS record. If you request CPT during your first year at UC San Diego, we will need a transcript and a copy of your I-20 from your previous institution. Time spent enrolled in language training does not count towards the One Academic Year Requirement. Change of Status : You may use time spent in another non-immigrant status (e.g., E-2, H-4, L-2) if you were enrolled full time at a SEVIS approved university or college for one academic year. You can use your Form I-94 and academic history to show full-time enrollment spent in a different non-immigrant status. Change of Academic Level : You may use time spent at a lower degree level towards the one academic year requirement if you were approved for a change of level with the same SEVIS record. Note : Students enrolled in less than 12 units with an authorized Reduced Course Load (RCL) are still considered full-time and may count the RCL term towards eligibility for the One Academic Year Requirement.

You must have been enrolled on a full-time basis for at least one academic year (3 quarters) on the same SEVIS number. Exceptions to the one academic year requirement are provided for students enrolled in graduate studies that require immediate participation in CPT.

The following describe other potential ways students accrue time towards the one academic year requirement: SEVIS Transfer : You may use time spent in another SEVIS approved university or college if you were enrolled full-time and did a timely SEVIS transfer using the same SEVIS record. If you request CPT during your first year at UC San Diego, we will need a transcript and a copy of your I-20 from your previous institution. Time spent enrolled in language training does not count towards the One Academic Year Requirement. Change of Status : You may use time spent in another non-immigrant status (e.g., E-2, H-4, L-2) if you were enrolled full time at a SEVIS approved university or college for one academic year. You can use your Form I-94 and academic history to show full-time enrollment spent in a different non-immigrant status. Change of Academic Level : You may use time spent at a lower degree level towards the one academic year requirement if you were approved for a change of level with the same SEVIS record.

SEVIS Transfer : You may use time spent in another SEVIS approved university or college if you were enrolled full-time and did a timely SEVIS transfer using the same SEVIS record. If you request CPT during your first year at UC San Diego, we will need a transcript and a copy of your I-20 from your previous institution. Time spent enrolled in language training does not count towards the One Academic Year Requirement.

Change of Status : You may use time spent in another non-immigrant status (e.g., E-2, H-4, L-2) if you were enrolled full time at a SEVIS approved university or college for one academic year. You can use your Form I-94 and academic history to show full-time enrollment spent in a different non-immigrant status.

Change of Academic Level : You may use time spent at a lower degree level towards the one academic year requirement if you were approved for a change of level with the same SEVIS record.

Note : Students enrolled in less than 12 units with an authorized Reduced Course Load (RCL) are still considered full-time and may count the RCL term towards eligibility for the One Academic Year Requirement.

Step 2: Establish a Curricular Component (Course Enrollment or Cooperative Program)

CPT can only be authorized if the employment is an integral part of the curriculum, that is, you will receive course credit or are enrolled in a cooperative program requiring off-campus employment. A student needs to be enrolled in a CPT-eligible course/program before their CPT request can be approved.

CPT Enrollment Requirements for Undergraduate Students:

Typical course numbers for undergraduates are: 191, 196, 197, 198 or 199 .

The course must be in the term(s) in which you plan to work (Fall, Winter, Spring, and Summer terms). Students applying through the Jacobs School of Engineering Cooperative Education Program should discuss with their major departments which course to enroll in to meet CPT enrollment requirements.

Students who wish to maximize the amount of CPT they can work during the summer are encouraged to enroll in Special Summer Session (Summer Session III). See section below for more information (Step 3: Consider Dates, Location, and Hours of CPT Employment).

Here is an overview of AIP requirements : Find an internship/job. Create an AIP Learning Agreement. Find a professor to oversee your AIP course: Please note that some adjunct professors may have union contracts that do not allow them to oversee additional courses, so it may be necessary to request an exception. Enroll in AIP 97 or 197 course through the EASy enrollment system.

Find an internship/job.

Create an AIP Learning Agreement.

Find a professor to oversee your AIP course: Please note that some adjunct professors may have union contracts that do not allow them to oversee additional courses, so it may be necessary to request an exception.

Enroll in AIP 97 or 197 course through the EASy enrollment system.

In order for your CPT request to be approved, you must show enrollment in a CPT course. Do not submit your request (Step 4: Request CPT I-20 from ISEO) until the registration shows up on your TritonLink academic history.

CPT Enrollment Requirements for Graduate Students:

Typical course numbers for graduate students are 291, 297, 298, and 299 .

The course must be in the term in which you plan to work (Fall, Winter, Spring, and Summer terms). If you are graduating during the summer, you must enroll in a research unit to be eligible for CPT.

Students who wish to maximize the amount of CPT they can work during the summer are encouraged to enroll in Special Summer Session (Summer Session III). See section below for more information (Step 3: Consider Dates, Location, and Hours of CPT Employment).

In order for your request to be approved, you must show enrollment in a CPT course (unless you are doing the Summer Cooperative Education Agreement, Option 2 below). Do not submit your request until the registration shows up on your TritonLink academic history.

If you participate in the Summer Cooperative Education Program, you will not be required to enroll in a course/earn academic credit for the employment. However, you will need to confirm that you intend to enroll for the following fall term when you submit your CPT application for the Summer term.

If you are participating in the Summer Coop, you may submit your CPT requests as early as spring term starts . CPT requests will be denied if submitted earlier than allowed. REQUIRED STEPS FOR PARTICIPATION: Complete Summer Cooperative Agreement: You must complete the Summer Cooperative Education Agreement and submit it with your CPT I-20 request in iServices . Please note that this form requires the signature of you and your employer (digital signatures are accepted). If your employer refuses to sign the form, you will then need to use Option 1 and enroll in a course to give you credit for your employment. Submit Summer Coop Completion Request: Upon completion of your employment, you will be required to submit this completion request in iServices before the first day of Fall quarter. Find the Working in the U.S. (F-1) category in the left menu. Select CPT Requests . Choose the Summer Coop Completion Request option. NOTE : If you do not submit the completion request, a hold will be placed on your Tritonlink record and you will be unable to register for courses or request transcripts.

Complete Summer Cooperative Agreement: You must complete the Summer Cooperative Education Agreement and submit it with your CPT I-20 request in iServices . Please note that this form requires the signature of you and your employer (digital signatures are accepted). If your employer refuses to sign the form, you will then need to use Option 1 and enroll in a course to give you credit for your employment.

Submit Summer Coop Completion Request: Upon completion of your employment, you will be required to submit this completion request in iServices before the first day of Fall quarter. Find the Working in the U.S. (F-1) category in the left menu. Select CPT Requests . Choose the Summer Coop Completion Request option. NOTE : If you do not submit the completion request, a hold will be placed on your Tritonlink record and you will be unable to register for courses or request transcripts.

Find the Working in the U.S. (F-1) category in the left menu. Select CPT Requests . Choose the Summer Coop Completion Request option.

Select CPT Requests .

Choose the Summer Coop Completion Request option.

NOTE : If you do not submit the completion request, a hold will be placed on your Tritonlink record and you will be unable to register for courses or request transcripts.

Step 3: Consider Dates, Location, and Hours of CPT Employment

Student Considerations

Remember, it is THE STUDENT's responsibility to ensure they are able to maintain their F-1 full-time enrollment requirements, balance their CPT employment with on-campus employment obligations, complete course requirements, and monitor the number of days they are authorized to participate in CPT. This section encourages you to consider the following factors when engaging in CPT.

What Dates Can I Work?

The dates you are permitted to engage in CPT will depend on the quarter you are enrolled in a CPT Course and if you are in you are a continuing or graduating student . See dates below for each group of students to determine the dates you may request to engage in CPT employment:

Continuing students, or students who plan to continue enrolling after their term of CPT employment, may work through the following academic breaks.

Graduating students , or students who are in their last term of enrollment when engaging in CPT may only work through the end of their final quarter of enrollment.

Quarter enrolled in CPT course

Continuing Students

Graduating Students

Sept 6 , 2025 – Jan 4, 2026

Sept 6, 2025 – Dec 13, 2025

Dec 6, 2025 - March 29, 2026

Dec 6, 2025 - March 21 2026

March 14, 2026 - June 28, 2026

March 14, 2026 - June 12, 2026

Summer 2026 Session III

June 6, 2026 - Sept 23, 2026

June 6, 2026 - Sept 18, 2026

Summer 2026 Session I

June 6, 2026 – August 2, 2026

June 6, 2026 – August 1, 2026

Summer 2026 Session II

August 1, 2026 – Sept 23, 2026

August 1, 2026 – Sept 5, 2026

Graduate Student 2026 Summer Coop Agreement

June 6, 2026 – Sept 23, 2026

NOT ELIGIBLE FOR SUMMER CO-OP

September 5, 2026 – Jan 4, 2027

September 5, 2026 – Dec 12, 2026

How Many Hours Can I Work?

Students should ensure they are balancing their CPT employment with their on-campus obligations. Students are able to apply for part-time CPT (20 hours or less per week ) or full-time CPT (21 hours per week or more) . ISEO highly recommends that students stay within the following limits:

Undergraduate Students: Part-time during the academic year (Fall/Winter/Spring Quarters). Students may work more than 20 hours during Summer term or quarter breaks, such as Spring, Fall, or Winter break . Full-time CPT during the academic year may be available to undergraduate students who are enrolled in the Jacobs School of Engineering Cooperative Education (Co-op) Program . Students requesting full-time CPT during the academic year should ensure they are balancing their CPT employment with their on-campus obligations such as UGIA/PLA work and course requirements.

Full-time CPT during the academic year may be available to undergraduate students who are enrolled in the Jacobs School of Engineering Cooperative Education (Co-op) Program .

Students requesting full-time CPT during the academic year should ensure they are balancing their CPT employment with their on-campus obligations such as UGIA/PLA work and course requirements.

Graduate Students: Academic Year: Part-time during the academic year (Fall/Winter/Spring Quarters). Students may work more than 20 hours during Summer term or quarter breaks, such as Spring, Fall, or Winter break . Full-time CPT during the academic year is available to Graduate students who have advanced to candidacy or are enrolled in a program which requires full-time CPT during the academic year. Approval of full-time CPT is at the discretion of academic departments and GEPA . Consider potential impacts to graduate funding and on-campus appointments with your academic department eligibility and potential impacts to funding and on-campus appointments with your academic department.

Full-time CPT during the academic year is available to Graduate students who have advanced to candidacy or are enrolled in a program which requires full-time CPT during the academic year.

Approval of full-time CPT is at the discretion of academic departments and GEPA . Consider potential impacts to graduate funding and on-campus appointments with your academic department eligibility and potential impacts to funding and on-campus appointments with your academic department.

Note, students who participate in full-time CPT for 365 days or more will not be eligible for OPT. If you want to apply for OPT after graduating from UC San Diego, then you will need to keep track of your time to ensure you do not reach 365 days or more of full-time CPT.

Location of CPT Employment Site

Full-time Enrollment Requirements: F-1 students are required to enroll full-time in at least 12 units in each academic term - Fall, Winter and Spring quarters. In addition, no more than one (1) remote class per quarter can be counted toward the 12-unit, full-time enrollment requirement. Students may take additional online classes in excess of the 12-unit, full-time enrollment requirement. Note: Remote courses are denoted as “RCLASS” in WebReg. Hybrid classes do not count against the maximum of one online course towards full-time enrollment requirements.The following information may be helpful to mitigate any risk:

Students are encouraged to pursue CPT opportunities that require their presence outside of San Diego during the summer term to ensure they are able to meet full-time enrollment requirements.

While federal regulations do not limit the physical location of research, employment, or other curricular activities, students who may be engaged in CPT outside of San Diego are encouraged to retain records to demonstrate how they have met in-person components of their full course load during each academic term (i.e., plane tickets, attendance records, maintenance of residence in San Diego).

Note, If you will be outside the U.S. for the entire duration of your internship, you do not need CPT authorization unless your employer requires it. If you are unsure if CPT is required, contact an ISEO Advisor .

Step 4: Request CPT I-20 from ISEO

Students must submit a separate application to engage in CPT each quarter and must have already secured a job offer for a role that is directly related to their major field of study. Submit a CPT I-20 Request in iServices :

Find the Working in the U.S. category in the left menu. Select CPT Requests . Choose the CPT I-20 Request option according to your degree level.

Select CPT Requests .

Choose the CPT I-20 Request option according to your degree level.

Prepare a PDF copy of your job offer letter. Your job offer letter should contain all required components listed on the sample job offer letter . ISEO does not require that all components are in the same letter. Students may submit various documents, in addition to a job offer letter, to clearly demonstrate all the required components on the sample job offer letter .

Your job offer letter should contain all required components listed on the sample job offer letter .

ISEO does not require that all components are in the same letter. Students may submit various documents, in addition to a job offer letter, to clearly demonstrate all the required components on the sample job offer letter .

Confirm your Curricular Component (Course Enrollment or Cooperative Agreement) Course Number: Do not submit your request until the registration shows up on your TritonLink academic history. Summer Coop: If you are a graduate student participating in the Summer Coop, upload a PDF copy of your Summer Cooperative Education Agreement .

Course Number: Do not submit your request until the registration shows up on your TritonLink academic history.

Summer Coop: If you are a graduate student participating in the Summer Coop, upload a PDF copy of your Summer Cooperative Education Agreement .

Report Dates of Employment and Hours If requesting different hours for different date ranges, clearly indicate this in the request.

If requesting different hours for different date ranges, clearly indicate this in the request.

Social Security Number You will need a CPT I-20 before you apply for a Social Security Number (SSN) . Note, SSNs are not issued by UC San Diego, they are issued by the SSA.

You will need a CPT I-20 before you apply for a Social Security Number (SSN) . Note, SSNs are not issued by UC San Diego, they are issued by the SSA.

Submit all of the required eForms. You will receive a confirmation email when your request has been successfully submitted. NOTE: This request will first be sent to your academic department for review, reflected as 'Routed to Third Party' status. Upon approval, it will then be forwarded to ISEO for review, indicated as 'Pending Office Approval' status. If your CPT application is pending for more than 3 days with your academic department, follow up with your department advisor.

NOTE: This request will first be sent to your academic department for review, reflected as 'Routed to Third Party' status. Upon approval, it will then be forwarded to ISEO for review, indicated as 'Pending Office Approval' status.

If your CPT application is pending for more than 3 days with your academic department, follow up with your department advisor.

ISEO has an average processing time of 10 business days. You will be notified via email when your request is complete.

Do not start working until you have your CPT I-20 to show to your employer. CPT cannot be backdated and any delays to your CPT processing may delay your authorized CPT start date.

Changes to Approved CPT

Adding a New CPT Employer

For each new CPT employer, you will need to apply for a new CPT I-20 by following the same steps above.

If students are applying for more than one CPT during the same term, please start by submitting the CPT I-20 Request in iServices . A link to the Concurrent CPT I-20 Request will be provided to students who indicate in the CPT I-20 Request that they need to submit a second CPT request.

Other Changes to Active CPT Authorizations

Please submit the CPT Amendment Request in iServices if you need to make one of the following changes to an approved and active CPT authorizations (within current dates of approved CPT):

Extend CPT through current term's employment dates (within table shown in Step 3: Consider Dates, Location, and Hours of CPT Employment)

Change your CPT employer’s name on your current I-20

Update CPT Employer Physical Address

Change CPT Employment Start Date

Submit a CPT Amendment Request in iServices :

Find the Working in the U.S. category in the left menu. Select CPT Requests . Choose the CPT Amendment Request according to your degree level.

Select CPT Requests .

Choose the CPT Amendment Request according to your degree level.

Prepare a PDF copy of your job offer letter.

You will receive a confirmation email when your request has been successfully submitted.

ISEO has an average processing time of 10 business days . You will be notified via email when your request is complete.

If you need to correct another error on your pending or approved CPT request, please contact an ISEO Advisor through our Contact Form .

Additional Resources:

Social Security Number (SSN)

Employment Workshops

Working in the U.S.

How to Find Employers

J-1 On-Campus Work

J-1 Academic Training (AT)

J-1 Volunteering and Unpaid Internships

F-1 On-Campus Work

F-1 Off-Campus Work (CPT)

F-1 Optional Practical Training (OPT)

F-1 Volunteering and Unpaid Internships

F-1 Economic Hardship

F-1 International Organizations