Student Services

Working in the U.S.

F-1 Economic Hardship

F-1 Work Authorization due to Economic Hardship

F-1 students who have severe, unforeseen economic hardship may be eligible to apply for off campus employment authorization that allows them to work for any employer.

Overview and Eligibility

F-1 Work Authorization based on economic hardship must be approved by USCIS and is extremely difficult to get approved. It is recommended that you look for on-campus employment or employment in your field of study that would qualify for F-1 CPT work authorization .

It is important to show that the student has some financial resources available. Lack of ability to pay any tuition, fees and/or living expenses would not qualify the student for this type of employment because off-campus employment salaries would not be sufficient to pay all expenses.

Review the original documentation you provided to UC San Diego to show that you could pay for at least the first academic year, then make a case for why that financial assistance is no longer sufficient to cover your expenses. Some examples of potentially eligible cases include:

Loss of financial aid

Extreme medical expenses encountered by you or your sponsor

Unexpected retirement

Divorce or other life events

Currency devaluation

In order to be eligible to request a F-1 Work Authorization based on economic hardship, you must meet all of the following requirements:

F-1 status for one academic year

Good academic standing

Enrolled in a full course of study

Can demonstrate that employment will not interfere with academic program

Can demonstrate that employment is necessary to avoid severe economic hardship due to unforeseen circumstances beyond the student’s control

Step 1: Meet with an ISEO advisor

You must meet with an ISEO advisor before requesting an Economic Hardship I-20.

In order to qualify for this type of employment, you need to show funding for whatever expenses you are able to fund yourself. If you cannot at least partly pay for tuition, fees, and/or living expenses, you would not qualify.

Step 2: Submit your Application to USCIS

Letter from you explaining the reason for the application.

Form I-765 completed and signed. You can download it from this USCIS webpage: https://www.uscis.gov/i-765 .

You can download it from this USCIS webpage: https://www.uscis.gov/i-765 .

I-20 recommendation from DSO.

Filing fee payable to Department of Homeland Security or Form I-912 requesting a fee waiver.

Two U.S.-style passport photos. The photos must be taken within the past 30 days. Yuo can see exact specifications on this U.S. State Department website: https://travel.state.gov/content/passports/en/passports/photos.html .

Yuo can see exact specifications on this U.S. State Department website: https://travel.state.gov/content/passports/en/passports/photos.html .

Copy of your passport information page (including photo, birthdate, and expiration date). Note that your passport must be valid for at least 6 months in the future.

Copy of your F-1 visa page or change of status to F-1 approval notice ( Form I-797 ).

Copy of your most recent I-94. You can retrieve it on this CBP webpage: https://i94.cbp.dhs.gov/I94/#/recent-search .

You can retrieve it on this CBP webpage: https://i94.cbp.dhs.gov/I94/#/recent-search .

Documents proving financial hardship (e.g., original financial document, bank statement, currency exchange rates, letter from sponsor, etc.).

Application materials should be mailed to the USCIS Lockbox Facility based on your mailing address. For more instructions, visit this USCIS webpage: https://www.uscis.gov/forms/forms-information/uscis-phoenix-and-dallas-lockbox-facilities .

STEP 3: Receive Work Authorization

Do not start working until you have received your EAD card. This may take up to 3 months . You may look for a job and interview and accept a job, but you cannot start working until you have received your EAD card.

Working in the U.S.

How to Find Employers

J-1 On-Campus Work

J-1 Academic Training (AT)

J-1 Volunteering and Unpaid Internships

F-1 On-Campus Work

F-1 Off-Campus Work (CPT)

F-1 Optional Practical Training (OPT)

F-1 Volunteering and Unpaid Internships

F-1 Economic Hardship

F-1 International Organizations