International Students

International Student Application Requirements

Academic Records and Transcripts Guidelines

For application review purposes (only), scan and upload copies of transcripts for all institutions attended after high school. In the online application, you will be prompted to upload a PDF of your scanned documents. Please upload both the front and back sides of the transcript, even if the back side is blank.

Uploaded transcripts should be recent and include the following: your name, the institution name, dates of attendance, grades/marks received, credits, and grading legend. If no transcript is available, please upload a statement explaining the circumstances.

If you are admitted: A Course-by-Course evaluation is required for all admitted applicants who have earned a degree(s) from an institution(s) outside of the United States. Details are below.

Upon Provisional Admission to UC San Diego

All admitted applicants who have earned a degree(s) from an institution(s) outside of the United States are required to complete and submit a Course-by-Course evaluation for each degree earned. Please select one of the following companies to complete your Course-by-Course evaluation:

WES Course-by-Course ICAP evaluation

TEC Course-by-Course evaluation

Step by step instructions for completing the evaluation process can be found in the Checklist Items tab of your applicant portal. Choose only one evaluation company to complete your evaluation. Please do not send official documents to the Graduate Admissions Office. You must submit a Course-by-Course evaluation once you have been admitted for your admission to UC San Diego to be finalized.

Your evaluation must include your completed degree. The Graduate Admissions Office does not accept evaluations that state you are currently enrolled in a program, or state your anticipated completion/graduation date. If you have in-progress coursework at an institution outside of the United States, do not submit the request for your Course-by-Course evaluation until you have completed your coursework and your degree has been conferred. If you request your evaluation prior to your degree conferral, your evaluation will be incomplete and you will be required to pay an additional fee to have the evaluation amended.

By the time enrollment begins, successful applicants must hold a bachelor's degree or the equivalent from an accredited institution in the United States or from a recognized university-level academic institution abroad. Completed coursework for both domestic and international applicants must demonstrate the equivalent of at least a B average in the United States . Some exceptional applicants with lower GPAs may be recommended for admission. Contact your department of interest for more information.

Foreign academic records must show all courses attended each year, examinations passed, seminars completed, and grades or marks received at all institutions where formal records are maintained. Official evidence of degree conferral must also be supplied, together with evidence of rank in class if available.

Official academic records and/or transcripts may take the form of:

Transcripts, attestations, appendices or addenda to diplomas, or mark sheets showing courses and examinations, units or hours, and grades (rank in class, if available).

Diplomas, degree certificates, or professional titles showing the degree and date conferred.

Official academic records and/or transcripts must be issued in the language of instruction and accompanied by official English translations.  Acceptable documentation includes:

Originals issued by the university bearing the original stamp or seal and the signature of the authorized official.

Official copies issued by the degree granting university bearing the stamp or seal and signature of the authorized official.

Official literal (word for word) English translations issued by the degree granting institution.

Translations prepared by an accredited member of the American Translator’s Association (ATA) are acceptable. They must be prepared from official copies of your academic records or degree certificate, in the original language. For more information and a directory of members, consult the Services Directories on the ATA website .

Credential evaluations prepared by other schools or by private agencies are not accepted. Materials noted above must be uploaded in your WES account or TEC Account in order to complete your required evaluation.

International Requirements

Requirement info

English Language Proficiency

Language Requirements

Visa Information

The visa application process should be started only after provisional acceptance

Non Discrimination Statement : In accordance with applicable Federal and State law and University policy, the University of California does not discriminate, or grant preferences, on the basis of race, color, national origin, religion, sex, disability, and/or other protected categories. More information about Proposition 209 can be found here . More information about the University of California Anti-Discrimination Policy can be found here.

Application Fee and Fee Waiver

Examination Requirements

Records & Transcripts

Statement of Purpose

International Students Exam Requirements English Language Proficiency Visa Information

Exam Requirements

English Language Proficiency

Visa Information

Admissions Policies