Financial Aid for OAP Students

Study Abroad & Exchange Programs

Financial Aid for OAP Students

Opportunities Abroad Programs are non-UC programs. These programs are administered by non-UC study abroad providers that are affiliated with UC San Diego. Students in OAP earn transfer credit and courses may be applied towards UC San Diego major, minor, and/or GE requirements. Because it is a non-UC program, you receive only Federal & State aid (NO UC-AID), and pay tuition & fees set by your host institution or program.

OAP Frequently Asked Questions (PDF)

Availability of Aid

Your financial aid need eligibility will cover the total costs of your program. Budgets will vary, but often include everything except airfare, some meals, and personal expenses. OAP students are awarded based on their program budget. If your OAP budget is greater than the UC San Diego budget, you may be eligible for additional loan eligibility. If your OAP budget is less than the UC San Diego budget, your financial aid will be reduced.

*NOTE: OAP programs are not eligible for UC Aid.

Academic Year (Fall, Spring & Year Programs)

Financial aid for OAP programs during the academic year consists of federal and state aid, scholarships, and federal and private loans.

Financial aid for summer OAP is limited to residual Pell Grant, unused Federal Direct Subsidized and Unsubsidized Loans from the academic year, or additional Direct Parent PLUS / Private Loans.

Be sure to apply and/or accept your loans as early as possible to avoid delays and ensure maximum financial aid eligibility.

Scholarship Information

OAP students are eligible for a variety of scholarships for their program abroad. These include:

UC San Diego Study Abroad Scholarships

Scholarships from your host institution or program

National Scholarships

If awarded a scholarship, the UC San Diego Financial Aid & Scholarships Office will adjust your aid accordingly.

Recieving Financial Aid

OAP students apply for Financial Aid in the same way as any other undergraduate student. Please ensure that you:

Submit your FAFSA or CA Dream Act Application (CADAA) by March 3.

Submit all documents requested by the Financial Aid & Scholarships Office in a timely manner.

The UC San Diego Study Abroad office will provide our office with a list of OAP participants. Once the budget for your OAP program has been determined through your Consortium Agreement form, your offer will be adjusted to your program cost, and you will receive a notification of your revised aid offer approximately 2 weeks before the start of your program. Your offer can be viewed via your Financial Aid and Scholarships (FAS) student portal and will be disbursed via your UC San Diego billing account.

Payments & Disbursements

OAP students do not pay tuition & fees to UC San Diego. Students will receive their FULL award and are responsible for paying their host institution or program directly.

OAP students will receive their disbursements according to the UC San Diego Quarterly Disbursement Schedule .

If your financial aid is less than the OAP program fees, you are responsible for the difference.

If your financial aid exceeds the OAP program fees, you will receive a refund. Your refund amount will be the remaining balance after you have paid your host institution.

For information regarding refunds/disbursements, please refer to the UC San Diego Quarterly Disbursement Schedule and review your Financial Aid and Scholarships (FAS) student portal .

If you have any questions regarding your refund/disbursement, please contact UC San Diego Student Financial Solutions .

Refund Information

UC San Diego provides OAP students with disbursements via direct deposit or mail. Disbursements are issued directly to the student named on the student account in question.

Direct Deposit: To enroll in Direct Deposit, use the Direct Deposit tool via Financial Aid and Scholarships (FAS) student portal. For more information on how to enroll in Direct Deposit, please visit the Student Financial Solutions website. Once processed, direct deposit refunds are transferred and available for use within 2-3 business days.

Postal Mail: If you are not enrolled in Direct Deposit. UC San Diego Student Financial Solutions will mail paper checks to the corresponding current or permanent mailing address. Paper check mailing time averages 5-7 business days via standard mailing time. *NOTE: If receiving a paper check, please ensure that your address is up to date.

*All financial aid will be paid to you in the full amount, and you will be responsible for paying your host institution or program directly. If your aid exceeds your bill, you will be entitled to a refund. Your refund amount will be the remaining balance after you have paid your host institution.

If you withdraw prior to the program start date, any financial aid that has been offered will be retracted via your UC San Diego account. If you plan on attending UC San Diego, your financial aid will be reinstated for the term you are returning.

If you withdraw from your program after the program start date, you will be considered a post-departure withdrawal. Your aid offer will be reassessed based on your withdrawal date and the withdrawal calculation. Once the revision is complete, you will receive a billing statement from UC San Diego.

*NOTE: You may be subject to housing or other host campus-based fees in the event of a withdrawal. Please consult with an advisor.

Changes in Your Financial Aid Offer

Aid offers for OAP students are based off financial aid eligibility and are subject to change. Any change with your aid offer will affect your UC San Diego account balance. You are responsible for paying off any programs fees and retracted financial aid disbursements.

Common reasons for changes in financial aid include (but are not limited to) OAP budget increase/decrease, scholarships, accepted loans, and withdrawals.

Ask UC San Diego Financial Aid about:

Study Abroad Financial Aid questions

Your financial aid offer

Changes to your financial aid offer

Confirmation and acceptance of offers

Contact Us: For study abroad financial aid questions, please submit your question through the following link:

UC San Diego Students: UC San Diego Services & Support Portal

Non-UC San Diego Contacts: Financial Aid Case Support for Non-UC San Diego contacts

On the ticket form, select Ask a Question or Make a Request > Financial Aid + Scholarships (FAS) > Study Abroad Offers.

Ask UC San Diego Student Financial Solutions about:

Account Statements

Contact: UC San Diego Student Financial Solutions

Ask your UC San Diego Study Abroad Advisor about:

Program Information and recommendations

Contact: UC San Diego Study Abroad

Study Abroad & Exchange Programs

Financial Aid for Global Seminars Students

Financial Aid for UCEAP Students

Financial Aid for Global Exchange Students

Financial Aid for OAP Students