Living On Campus

Undergrad Neighborhoods

HDH Undergraduate Neighborhoods

Upper Division Housing Residence Life Staff

Upper Division Housing ResLife Staff

Resident Assistants Pangea RA-On-Duty number: 858.378.0387 Pepper Canyon East RA-On-Duty number: 858.253.1562 Pepper Canyon West RA-On-Duty number: 858.378.0386 Rita Atkinson Residences RA-On-Duty number: 858.864.2229

Resident Assistants

Pangea RA-On-Duty number: 858.378.0387

Pepper Canyon East RA-On-Duty number: 858.253.1562

Pepper Canyon West RA-On-Duty number: 858.378.0386

Rita Atkinson Residences RA-On-Duty number: 858.864.2229

Residential Community Organizers Email: rcoinfo@ucsd.edu

Residential Community Organizers

Email: rcoinfo@ucsd.edu

Student Mailroom and Office Assistants

Student Mailroom and Office Assistants

Pangea Apartments & Residence Halls Resident Assistants

Aadya she/her Community: Pangea Res Halls (PN-U-101-112 & 201-312 and PN-V-201-312) Transfer Student - Fourth year, Bioengineering Hi everyone! My name is Aadya Kashyap. I am a fourth year transfer student majoring in Bioengineering. In my free time, I enjoy reading webtoons. Please feel free to reach out to me with any questions or concerns. I hope everyone has a smooth transition into this academic year and I look forward to getting to know everyone.

she/her Community: Pangea Res Halls (PN-U-101-112 & 201-312 and PN-V-201-312) Transfer Student - Fourth year, Bioengineering

Hi everyone! My name is Aadya Kashyap. I am a fourth year transfer student majoring in Bioengineering. In my free time, I enjoy reading webtoons. Please feel free to reach out to me with any questions or concerns. I hope everyone has a smooth transition into this academic year and I look forward to getting to know everyone.

Aashna she/her Community: Pangea Res Halls (PN-R-407-412, PN-S-101-406 and PN-T-101-206) Transfer Student - Fourth year, Business Economics Hello! My name is Aashna Pasad. I am a fourth year Business Economics major. I am originally from Mumbai, India. I love sketching, trying out new food and coffee spots in San Diego, and spending time on the beach. I’m really looking forward to being part of this community and getting to know everyone. Can’t wait for a fun year together!

she/her Community: Pangea Res Halls (PN-R-407-412, PN-S-101-406 and PN-T-101-206) Transfer Student - Fourth year, Business Economics

Hello! My name is Aashna Pasad. I am a fourth year Business Economics major. I am originally from Mumbai, India. I love sketching, trying out new food and coffee spots in San Diego, and spending time on the beach. I’m really looking forward to being part of this community and getting to know everyone. Can’t wait for a fun year together!

Ariel she/her Community: Pangea Apartments, Building M Third year, Bioengineering Hi! My name is Ariel and I am a third year bioengineering major in Warren College. I am originally from Wellesley, MA which is about 20 minutes outside of Boston. Outside of class, I love baking, and spending time with my friends, and swimming so if I am not at my dorm or class, you'll probably find me at the pool. Feel free to reach out with any questions, concerns, or even if you just want to chat! Looking forward to an amazing year!

she/her Community: Pangea Apartments, Building M Third year, Bioengineering

Hi! My name is Ariel and I am a third year bioengineering major in Warren College. I am originally from Wellesley, MA which is about 20 minutes outside of Boston. Outside of class, I love baking, and spending time with my friends, and swimming so if I am not at my dorm or class, you'll probably find me at the pool. Feel free to reach out with any questions, concerns, or even if you just want to chat! Looking forward to an amazing year!

Bobby he/him Community: Pangea Apartments, Building K First Year, Bioengineering Hello! My name is Bobby Chui. I am a bioengineering major from Muir College. I was born and raised in Hong Kong and moved to Phoenix, Arizona. It is my first time being an RA and I am so excited to meet everyone. In my free time, I enjoy hanging out with friends, reading, surfing, and playing basketball! Please don’t hesitate to say hi because I would love to meet you! I am here to support you through good times and bad times!

he/him Community: Pangea Apartments, Building K First Year, Bioengineering Hello! My name is Bobby Chui. I am a bioengineering major from Muir College. I was born and raised in Hong Kong and moved to Phoenix, Arizona. It is my first time being an RA and I am so excited to meet everyone. In my free time, I enjoy hanging out with friends, reading, surfing, and playing basketball! Please don’t hesitate to say hi because I would love to meet you! I am here to support you through good times and bad times!

Chenny she/her Community: Pangea Apartments, Building M Transfer Student - Fourth year, Psychology Hi everyone! My name is Chenny Kim and I am a fourth-year psychology major. I'm a first time RA, and I'm so excited to get to know everyone throughout the year! I'm here to be a guide, friend, and listening ear as we make our way through the year ahead. Outside of being an RA, I love to spend my time traveling, playing tennis, cooking, going camping, and watching movies. I also love to try new hobbies so I'd be glad to hear recommendations. Don't hesitate to reach out with any questions or if you just want to chat!

she/her Community: Pangea Apartments, Building M Transfer Student - Fourth year, Psychology

Hi everyone! My name is Chenny Kim and I am a fourth-year psychology major. I'm a first time RA, and I'm so excited to get to know everyone throughout the year! I'm here to be a guide, friend, and listening ear as we make our way through the year ahead. Outside of being an RA, I love to spend my time traveling, playing tennis, cooking, going camping, and watching movies. I also love to try new hobbies so I'd be glad to hear recommendations. Don't hesitate to reach out with any questions or if you just want to chat!

Diego he/him Community: Pangea Res Halls (PN-R-101-406) Third year, Cognitive Science Hello! My name is Diego Cajas and I am a third-year Cognitive Science major originally from Los Angeles. This is my first year being an RA, I’m so excited to meet everyone. In my free time, I enjoy going to the gym, reading, running and listening to all kinds of music. I look forward to meeting everyone and helping you in your transition. Please feel free to come chat with me and ask questions, I am here to support you!

he/him Community: Pangea Res Halls (PN-R-101-406) Third year, Cognitive Science

Hello! My name is Diego Cajas and I am a third-year Cognitive Science major originally from Los Angeles. This is my first year being an RA, I’m so excited to meet everyone. In my free time, I enjoy going to the gym, reading, running and listening to all kinds of music. I look forward to meeting everyone and helping you in your transition. Please feel free to come chat with me and ask questions, I am here to support you!

Dishita she/her Community: Pangea Apartments, Building G Fourth year, International Affairs Hii everyone! My name is Dishita Rajan and I'm from Campbell, CA. I am a 4th year student and am in my 2nd year of graduate school. I’m in a BA/MIA (Master of International Affairs) program, and I just completed my undergraduate degree in Political Science – International Relations this past June! I love to read, go to the beach, and gym :). I can't wait to get to know all of you!

she/her Community: Pangea Apartments, Building G Fourth year, International Affairs

Hii everyone! My name is Dishita Rajan and I'm from Campbell, CA. I am a 4th year student and am in my 2nd year of graduate school. I’m in a BA/MIA (Master of International Affairs) program, and I just completed my undergraduate degree in Political Science – International Relations this past June! I love to read, go to the beach, and gym :). I can't wait to get to know all of you!

Erica she/her/ella Community: Pangea Apartments, Building J Fourth year, Cognitive Behavioral Neuroscience Hey everyone! My name is Erica and I'm a fourth year Cognitive Science major. Some of my favorite things to do are go to the beach, watch movies, and exercise. This is my third year of being an RA and I'm so excited to kick off senior year with you all!

she/her/ella Community: Pangea Apartments, Building J Fourth year, Cognitive Behavioral Neuroscience

Hey everyone! My name is Erica and I'm a fourth year Cognitive Science major. Some of my favorite things to do are go to the beach, watch movies, and exercise. This is my third year of being an RA and I'm so excited to kick off senior year with you all!

Himangi she/her Community: Pangea Apartments, Building K Fourth year, Microbiology Hi all! My name is Himangi Sharma (she/her), and I am a fourth year Microbiology undergraduate in Marshall College from the Bay Area (Shoutout fellow San Jose-ans!) This is my first year being an RA, and as a transfer student, I am looking forward to sharing my experiences with you all, and helping support you so you can grow as students and people. In my free time, I love to read, watch Bollywood, dance, hike, and catch a sunset at the beach. I'm always down to chat with you, so feel free to ask me questions!

she/her Community: Pangea Apartments, Building K Fourth year, Microbiology

Hi all! My name is Himangi Sharma (she/her), and I am a fourth year Microbiology undergraduate in Marshall College from the Bay Area (Shoutout fellow San Jose-ans!) This is my first year being an RA, and as a transfer student, I am looking forward to sharing my experiences with you all, and helping support you so you can grow as students and people. In my free time, I love to read, watch Bollywood, dance, hike, and catch a sunset at the beach. I'm always down to chat with you, so feel free to ask me questions!

Jacqueline she/her Community: Pangea Res Halls (PN-P-400-600) Third year, Public Health - Concentration in Medicine Science Hello everyone! My name is Jacqueline, and I’m a third-year Public Health major with a minor in General Biology from Riverside, CA. Outside of being your RA, I serve as the Social Chair for Healthy Skin Initiative and I like to volunteer at animal shelters and hospitals. In my free time, you’ll probably find me drawing on my iPad, making cute crafts like "Decoden", or listening to music. I’m really looking forward to a fun year with all of you!

she/her Community: Pangea Res Halls (PN-P-400-600) Third year, Public Health - Concentration in Medicine Science

Hello everyone! My name is Jacqueline, and I’m a third-year Public Health major with a minor in General Biology from Riverside, CA. Outside of being your RA, I serve as the Social Chair for Healthy Skin Initiative and I like to volunteer at animal shelters and hospitals. In my free time, you’ll probably find me drawing on my iPad, making cute crafts like "Decoden", or listening to music. I’m really looking forward to a fun year with all of you!

Jhoally she/her Community: Pangea Res Halls (PN-O-401-512) Transfer Student - Fourth year, Political Science Hello! I am a fourth-year political science major from Orange County, and I am a transfer student, as well as a first-year RA. I am excited to meet everyone and get to know them! In my free time, I love reading books, going to the beach, and hanging out with my friends. If you ever need anyone, I am here for a chat, support, or anything on your mind!

she/her Community: Pangea Res Halls (PN-O-401-512) Transfer Student - Fourth year, Political Science

Hello! I am a fourth-year political science major from Orange County, and I am a transfer student, as well as a first-year RA. I am excited to meet everyone and get to know them! In my free time, I love reading books, going to the beach, and hanging out with my friends. If you ever need anyone, I am here for a chat, support, or anything on your mind!

Joshua he/him Community: Pangea Res Halls (PN-Q-300s-500s) Fourth year, Mechanical Engineering What's up y'all! My name is Joshua Conge, and I am a 4th-year mechanical engineering major from Temecula, CA. This is my first year as an RA, and I am super excited to meet and get to know everybody! I love to powerlift, thrift, try new activities, and watch anime! If you ever need support, guidance, or just someone to yap to, feel free to reach out to me!

he/him Community: Pangea Res Halls (PN-Q-300s-500s) Fourth year, Mechanical Engineering

What's up y'all! My name is Joshua Conge, and I am a 4th-year mechanical engineering major from Temecula, CA. This is my first year as an RA, and I am super excited to meet and get to know everybody! I love to powerlift, thrift, try new activities, and watch anime! If you ever need support, guidance, or just someone to yap to, feel free to reach out to me!

Kaden he/him Community: Pangea Res Halls (PN-N-301-606 and PN-O-301-312) Third year, Business Psychology and Music Hello! My name is Kaden Cho, and I’m a third-year RA originally from Arcadia, CA. I’m majoring in Business Psychology and Music, with a minor in Marketing. In my free time, I love singing, playing piano, writing music, dancing, hanging out with friends, binge-watching anime, and exploring new cafés. Looking ahead, I’m especially interested in music direction (particularly musical theatre), music education, film scoring, marketing, and clinical social work. As your RA, I’m really excited to get to know each of you and the unique personalities you’ll bring to our community.

he/him Community: Pangea Res Halls (PN-N-301-606 and PN-O-301-312) Third year, Business Psychology and Music

Hello! My name is Kaden Cho, and I’m a third-year RA originally from Arcadia, CA. I’m majoring in Business Psychology and Music, with a minor in Marketing. In my free time, I love singing, playing piano, writing music, dancing, hanging out with friends, binge-watching anime, and exploring new cafés. Looking ahead, I’m especially interested in music direction (particularly musical theatre), music education, film scoring, marketing, and clinical social work. As your RA, I’m really excited to get to know each of you and the unique personalities you’ll bring to our community.

Micah he/him Community: Pangea Apartments, Building J Third year, Political Science and Urban Studies & Planning Hi everyone! My name is Micah, and I’m a third-year UCSD student double majoring in Political Science (Data Analytics track) and Urban Studies & Planning. I’m originally from Orange County, CA, and I’m passionate about community-building, environmental justice, and sustainable development. Some of my favorite hobbies are climbing (both in the gym and outdoors), backpacking, and live music. In my personal life I love hosting community events like potlucks, vinyl listening nights, and game nights so I am excited to bring that to y'all as well. If you ever want to chat about environmentalism, outdoor adventures, or just need a good food recommendation, I’m your person! I’m so excited to be your RA this year and can’t wait to meet you all!

he/him Community: Pangea Apartments, Building J Third year, Political Science and Urban Studies & Planning

Hi everyone! My name is Micah, and I’m a third-year UCSD student double majoring in Political Science (Data Analytics track) and Urban Studies & Planning. I’m originally from Orange County, CA, and I’m passionate about community-building, environmental justice, and sustainable development. Some of my favorite hobbies are climbing (both in the gym and outdoors), backpacking, and live music. In my personal life I love hosting community events like potlucks, vinyl listening nights, and game nights so I am excited to bring that to y'all as well. If you ever want to chat about environmentalism, outdoor adventures, or just need a good food recommendation, I’m your person! I’m so excited to be your RA this year and can’t wait to meet you all!

Praveen he/him Community: Pangea Res Halls (PN-O-600s, PN-P-300s and PN-Q-200s) Third year, Data Science & Applied Math Hey, hey everyone! My name is Praveen, and I’m super excited to be a first-time RA for Pangea Residence Halls this year! A little about me: I'm a third year, data science & applied math double major at Thurgood Marshall College. I love spending time outdoors, whether that’s at the beach, going on a drive, or just enjoying some fresh air. I’m also into Formula 1, eating (yes that's a hobby I'm very passionate about!), and table tennis. Most of all, I enjoy meeting new people and trying new things, so I’m really looking forward to getting to know each of you and making this year a memorable one together!

he/him Community: Pangea Res Halls (PN-O-600s, PN-P-300s and PN-Q-200s) Third year, Data Science & Applied Math

Hey, hey everyone! My name is Praveen, and I’m super excited to be a first-time RA for Pangea Residence Halls this year! A little about me: I'm a third year, data science & applied math double major at Thurgood Marshall College. I love spending time outdoors, whether that’s at the beach, going on a drive, or just enjoying some fresh air. I’m also into Formula 1, eating (yes that's a hobby I'm very passionate about!), and table tennis. Most of all, I enjoy meeting new people and trying new things, so I’m really looking forward to getting to know each of you and making this year a memorable one together!

Selin she/her Community: Pangea Apartments, Building H Third year, Structural Engineering Hello everyone! My name is Selin Buyuksonmez and I am a third-year Structural Engineering major with a minor in Business. I was born and raised in San Diego, so if you want recommendations for places to see or eat at, let me know! This is my first year being an RA, and I am so excited to meet everyone. In my free time, I love to cook, read, binge watch Turkish dramas, and hangout with friends. Please feel free to come chat with me and ask questions, I am here to support you!

she/her Community: Pangea Apartments, Building H Third year, Structural Engineering

Hello everyone! My name is Selin Buyuksonmez and I am a third-year Structural Engineering major with a minor in Business. I was born and raised in San Diego, so if you want recommendations for places to see or eat at, let me know! This is my first year being an RA, and I am so excited to meet everyone. In my free time, I love to cook, read, binge watch Turkish dramas, and hangout with friends. Please feel free to come chat with me and ask questions, I am here to support you!

Shalini she/her Community: Pangea Apartments, Building L Third year, Biochemistry and Music Hello, my name is Shalini and it is my third year at UCSD and first year as an RA! I am from Fontana, California and am double majoring in biochemistry and music. For fun, I play the alto saxophone, piano, and guitar. In my free time I also like to crochet and thrift with my friends. I am originally a Revelle student but am so excited to serve this brand new community and meet you all!

she/her Community: Pangea Apartments, Building L Third year, Biochemistry and Music

Hello, my name is Shalini and it is my third year at UCSD and first year as an RA! I am from Fontana, California and am double majoring in biochemistry and music. For fun, I play the alto saxophone, piano, and guitar. In my free time I also like to crochet and thrift with my friends. I am originally a Revelle student but am so excited to serve this brand new community and meet you all!

Pepper Canyon East & Matthews Apartments Resident Assistants

Alishia she/her Community: Pepper Canyon East 1000s & 1100s Fourth year, Communications and Marketing Hi everyone! My name is Alishia and I am a fourth year studying Communications with a minor in Marketing, and I am from Southern California! I love swimming and snorkeling at La Jolla Shores, reading books, listening to music (tune into my show at KSDT!!), cafe hopping, watching movies (shoutout AMC stubs), and traveling! Super excited to meet you all this year, I am always open for any questions, concerns, or quick yap sessions, manifesting a great year for you all <3

she/her Community: Pepper Canyon East 1000s & 1100s Fourth year, Communications and Marketing

Hi everyone! My name is Alishia and I am a fourth year studying Communications with a minor in Marketing, and I am from Southern California! I love swimming and snorkeling at La Jolla Shores, reading books, listening to music (tune into my show at KSDT!!), cafe hopping, watching movies (shoutout AMC stubs), and traveling! Super excited to meet you all this year, I am always open for any questions, concerns, or quick yap sessions, manifesting a great year for you all <3

Anna she/her Community: Pepper Canyon East 400 Transfer Student - Third year, Applied Math My name is Anna Vanderbilt and I'm from Pleasanton, CA. I'm studying Applied Math, and this will be my 2nd year as an RA. In my free time I like to paint, bake, and hike. Excited to meet you all this year!!

she/her Community: Pepper Canyon East 400 Transfer Student - Third year, Applied Math

My name is Anna Vanderbilt and I'm from Pleasanton, CA. I'm studying Applied Math, and this will be my 2nd year as an RA. In my free time I like to paint, bake, and hike. Excited to meet you all this year!!

Anoushka she/her Community: Matthews C Apartments Third year, Math Econ Hi everyone! My name is Anoushka Shandalaya, and I’m a 3rd-year Math & Economics major from Delhi, India. This is my first year as an RA, and I’m really excited to get to know all of you! In my free time, I enjoy cooking, painting, spending time with friends, and exploring new places. I look forward to meeting you and supporting you throughout the year!!

she/her Community: Matthews C Apartments Third year, Math Econ

Hi everyone! My name is Anoushka Shandalaya, and I’m a 3rd-year Math & Economics major from Delhi, India. This is my first year as an RA, and I’m really excited to get to know all of you! In my free time, I enjoy cooking, painting, spending time with friends, and exploring new places. I look forward to meeting you and supporting you throughout the year!!

Claudia she/her/ella Community: Pepper Canyon East 900s Fourth year, Dance Hello! My name is Claudia, and I’m a fourth-year Dance major from Eleanor Roosevelt College. I’m originally from Los Angeles, but I was raised in Torreón, Coahuila, Mexico. I love going out, having fun, and of course dancing. I can’t wait to meet all of you and make this a great year together!

she/her/ella Community: Pepper Canyon East 900s Fourth year, Dance

Hello! My name is Claudia, and I’m a fourth-year Dance major from Eleanor Roosevelt College. I’m originally from Los Angeles, but I was raised in Torreón, Coahuila, Mexico. I love going out, having fun, and of course dancing. I can’t wait to meet all of you and make this a great year together!

Diana she/her/ella Community: Pepper Canyon East 1700s First Year Graduate Student, Structural Engineering Hello everyone! My name is Diana Gonzalez and I am from Santa Ana, CA. I completed my Bachelors Degree at UCSD and am currently a 1st year graduate student majoring in Structural Engineering. This will be my 3rd year as an RA and I am very excited to be a helping hand while you're at Upper Division Housing!

she/her/ella Community: Pepper Canyon East 1700s First Year Graduate Student, Structural Engineering

Hello everyone! My name is Diana Gonzalez and I am from Santa Ana, CA. I completed my Bachelors Degree at UCSD and am currently a 1st year graduate student majoring in Structural Engineering. This will be my 3rd year as an RA and I am very excited to be a helping hand while you're at Upper Division Housing!

Emma she/her Community: Matthews C Apartments Third year, Structural Engineering Hi, everyone! My name is Emma and I am a third year Structural Engineering student, originally from Marshall college. I am looking forward to serving as an RA this year for Upper Division Housing. Outside of academics, I am involved in CMAA and the Eastern European Society. I enjoy going to the gym, cooking/baking, and also hanging out with friends. Overall, I am super excited to meet everyone and cannot wait to have an amazing year with you all!

she/her Community: Matthews C Apartments Third year, Structural Engineering

Hi, everyone! My name is Emma and I am a third year Structural Engineering student, originally from Marshall college. I am looking forward to serving as an RA this year for Upper Division Housing. Outside of academics, I am involved in CMAA and the Eastern European Society. I enjoy going to the gym, cooking/baking, and also hanging out with friends. Overall, I am super excited to meet everyone and cannot wait to have an amazing year with you all!

Herson he/him Community: Matthews A Apartments Third year, Math Econ Hello everyone, my name is Herson Moraga and I'm a third-year student majoring in Math-Econ(Joint major) from LA. This is my first year as an RA and I'm super excited to meet everyone. In my free time, I love listening to music and going to concerts. This part year I have been lucky enough to attend concerts such as Hozier, Tyler the Creator and Billie Eilish. Outside of the RA role, I have worked with first-year students as a Peer Mentor and I'm currently employed as a math tutor. If you have any questions, concerns or anything, feel free to reach out!

he/him Community: Matthews A Apartments Third year, Math Econ

Hello everyone, my name is Herson Moraga and I'm a third-year student majoring in Math-Econ(Joint major) from LA. This is my first year as an RA and I'm super excited to meet everyone. In my free time, I love listening to music and going to concerts. This part year I have been lucky enough to attend concerts such as Hozier, Tyler the Creator and Billie Eilish. Outside of the RA role, I have worked with first-year students as a Peer Mentor and I'm currently employed as a math tutor. If you have any questions, concerns or anything, feel free to reach out!

Jada she/her Community: Matthews E Apartments Third Year, Business-Psychology Hello! My name is Jada Vera. I am a Third year Business Psychology Major at Muir College. This is my first time being an RA this year! My favorite things to do are shopping, finding aesthetic restaurants, and hanging out with my loved ones. I’m so excited to meet and work with amazing peers!

she/her Community: Matthews E Apartments Third Year, Business-Psychology

Hello! My name is Jada Vera. I am a Third year Business Psychology Major at Muir College. This is my first time being an RA this year! My favorite things to do are shopping, finding aesthetic restaurants, and hanging out with my loved ones. I’m so excited to meet and work with amazing peers!

Jasmine she/her Community: Matthews B Apartments Third year, Human Biology Hi everyone! My name is Jasmine Rodriguez and I’m from LA. I am a third year pre-med student majoring in Human Biology and minoring in Global Health. Some of my favorite things to do are thrift, explore new cafes, and watch the sunset. This is my first year being an RA, and I am so excited to meet everyone and plan events for you all.

she/her Community: Matthews B Apartments Third year, Human Biology

Hi everyone! My name is Jasmine Rodriguez and I’m from LA. I am a third year pre-med student majoring in Human Biology and minoring in Global Health. Some of my favorite things to do are thrift, explore new cafes, and watch the sunset. This is my first year being an RA, and I am so excited to meet everyone and plan events for you all.

Juan he/him Community: Matthews A Apartments Transfer Student - Fourth year, Aerospace Engineering Hi everyone, my name is Juan Sanchez, and I am very excited to be your RA this year at Matthews Apartments. I look forward to helping us build a welcoming and supportive community together. A little about me: I am a transfer student in my senior year, majoring in Aerospace Engineering, and I am originally from Cali, Colombia. My interests include sports, especially soccer and MMA, as well as cooking, dancing, and listening to music (which I do all day, every day). Please know that you can count on me for anything, whether it’s a question, a concern, or simply a quick chat. I am always available and ready to support you. My goal is to make your UCSD experience a positive and memorable one.

he/him Community: Matthews A Apartments Transfer Student - Fourth year, Aerospace Engineering

Hi everyone, my name is Juan Sanchez, and I am very excited to be your RA this year at Matthews Apartments. I look forward to helping us build a welcoming and supportive community together. A little about me: I am a transfer student in my senior year, majoring in Aerospace Engineering, and I am originally from Cali, Colombia. My interests include sports, especially soccer and MMA, as well as cooking, dancing, and listening to music (which I do all day, every day). Please know that you can count on me for anything, whether it’s a question, a concern, or simply a quick chat. I am always available and ready to support you. My goal is to make your UCSD experience a positive and memorable one.

Linh she/her Community: Pepper Canyon East 100s Third year, Cognitive Science (with a specialization in Design and Interaction) Hello everyone! My name is Linh, and I am a third-year Seventh College student majoring in Cognitive Science (specializing in Design and Interaction). Additionally, I am from the San Gabriel Valley area! Outside of academics, I love drawing, going to the beach, and getting sweet treats. I look forward to meeting everyone this year!

she/her Community: Pepper Canyon East 100s Third year, Cognitive Science (with a specialization in Design and Interaction)

Hello everyone! My name is Linh, and I am a third-year Seventh College student majoring in Cognitive Science (specializing in Design and Interaction). Additionally, I am from the San Gabriel Valley area! Outside of academics, I love drawing, going to the beach, and getting sweet treats. I look forward to meeting everyone this year!

Milena she/her Community: Pepper Canyon East 300s, 500s, & 600s First Year Master's Student, Chemical Engineering Hello! My name is Milena, a first year master's student studying Chemcial Engineering, from Eastvale, CA. Fun fact I went to UCSD for undergrad and this is actually my fourth year as an RA in Pepper Canyon East. In my free time I enjoy baking, hiking, and watching movies. I can't wait to meet you all and please feel free to reach out if you have any questions!

she/her Community: Pepper Canyon East 300s, 500s, & 600s First Year Master's Student, Chemical Engineering

Hello! My name is Milena, a first year master's student studying Chemcial Engineering, from Eastvale, CA. Fun fact I went to UCSD for undergrad and this is actually my fourth year as an RA in Pepper Canyon East. In my free time I enjoy baking, hiking, and watching movies. I can't wait to meet you all and please feel free to reach out if you have any questions!

Parth he/him Community: Pepper Canyon East 1300s & 1400s Third year, Math Econ Hello everyone! My name is Parth Jindal and I am a 3rd year Math-Econ student from India. This is my first year as an RA and I am so excited for the year to start. I enjoy watching movies, play pool/snooker, and listening to country music. I look forward to meeting everyone and helping you transition into college!

he/him Community: Pepper Canyon East 1300s & 1400s Third year, Math Econ

Hello everyone! My name is Parth Jindal and I am a 3rd year Math-Econ student from India. This is my first year as an RA and I am so excited for the year to start. I enjoy watching movies, play pool/snooker, and listening to country music. I look forward to meeting everyone and helping you transition into college!

Raphael he/him Community: Pepper Canyon East 200s Fourth year, Public Health Hi! I am a fourth-year Public Health Student and a third-year RA for transfer housing. I am a Seventh college student and in my free time I like to eat, do sports, and travel. Some of the sports I enjoy participating in are basketball, volleyball, bowling, boxing, and golf.

he/him Community: Pepper Canyon East 200s Fourth year, Public Health

Hi! I am a fourth-year Public Health Student and a third-year RA for transfer housing. I am a Seventh college student and in my free time I like to eat, do sports, and travel. Some of the sports I enjoy participating in are basketball, volleyball, bowling, boxing, and golf.

Roya she/her Community: Pepper Canyon East 700s & 800s Fourth year, Human Biology Hello! My name is Roya and I'm a returning RA for PCE. I'm a fourth year Human Biology major with a minor in Chemistry as an ERC student. Outside of class, I love to crochet, dance, hike, and try new coffee shops. I look forward to meeting everyone and can't wait for a fun year together!

she/her Community: Pepper Canyon East 700s & 800s Fourth year, Human Biology

Hello! My name is Roya and I'm a returning RA for PCE. I'm a fourth year Human Biology major with a minor in Chemistry as an ERC student. Outside of class, I love to crochet, dance, hike, and try new coffee shops. I look forward to meeting everyone and can't wait for a fun year together!

Sriprada she/her Community: Pepper Canyon East 1200s & 1800s Fourth year, Cell and Molecular Biology Hello! I'm Sriprada and I’m a fourth-year Cell and Molecular Biology major. In my free time, I love going on hikes and exploring San Diego. Feel free to reach out if you have any questions about being a student at UCSD or even if you just want to chat :) I look forward to a great year!

she/her Community: Pepper Canyon East 1200s & 1800s Fourth year, Cell and Molecular Biology

Hello! I'm Sriprada and I’m a fourth-year Cell and Molecular Biology major. In my free time, I love going on hikes and exploring San Diego. Feel free to reach out if you have any questions about being a student at UCSD or even if you just want to chat :) I look forward to a great year!

Vanessa she/her Community: Pepper Canyon East 1500s Third year, Political Science- Public Policy concentration Hello! My name is Vanessa, and I'm a political science major from Seventh College! My hometown is near Seattle, Washington, and I've really loved getting to know the San Diego area and what our community has to offer. This year I've taken on a programming internship at the Women's Center, so feel free to ask questions about the center or attend our events! Being involved around campus is amazing, and in my free time I enjoy making jewelry, going to the movies, and thrifting. If you want to talk, have questions, or need support, don't be afraid to reach out as well. I'm excited to meet everyone!

she/her Community: Pepper Canyon East 1500s Third year, Political Science- Public Policy concentration

Hello! My name is Vanessa, and I'm a political science major from Seventh College! My hometown is near Seattle, Washington, and I've really loved getting to know the San Diego area and what our community has to offer. This year I've taken on a programming internship at the Women's Center, so feel free to ask questions about the center or attend our events! Being involved around campus is amazing, and in my free time I enjoy making jewelry, going to the movies, and thrifting. If you want to talk, have questions, or need support, don't be afraid to reach out as well. I'm excited to meet everyone!

Violet she/her Community: Matthews D Apartments Third year, International Studies Political Science Hi all! My name is Violet Jackson and I am a third year International Studies student from LA! In my free time I love to go on runs, read, sketch and go to the beach!! Please feel free to come chat with me and ask questions, I am here to support you!

she/her Community: Matthews D Apartments Third year, International Studies Political Science

Hi all! My name is Violet Jackson and I am a third year International Studies student from LA! In my free time I love to go on runs, read, sketch and go to the beach!! Please feel free to come chat with me and ask questions, I am here to support you!

Wesley he/him Community: Pepper Canyon East 1600s Third year, Aerospace Engineering I am Wesley Bantugan, a 3rd year Aerospace Engineer hailing from ERC for my second year at Pepper Canyon! Although I'm an engineer I'm an avid arts fan and I love to crochet, sew, read, and I look forward to helping y'all!

he/him Community: Pepper Canyon East 1600s Third year, Aerospace Engineering

I am Wesley Bantugan, a 3rd year Aerospace Engineer hailing from ERC for my second year at Pepper Canyon! Although I'm an engineer I'm an avid arts fan and I love to crochet, sew, read, and I look forward to helping y'all!

Pepper Canyon West Resident Assistants

Adaora she/her Community: Rya 4 Transfer Student - Fourth year, Cognitive and Behavioral Neuroscience/Premed My name is Adaora Kanu, and I’m a 4th-year student from Mountain House, CA. I transferred to UCSD, so this is my second year here and my first year as an RA. Some of my hobbies include cosplaying, cross-stitch/embroidery, reading, braiding my hair, and doing my nails. As your RA, I’m here as a resource, whether you’re looking for fun events on campus, need help navigating UCSD, or just want a buddy to grab coffee with. I’m excited to meet all of you and to support you in making the most of your time here.

she/her Community: Rya 4 Transfer Student - Fourth year, Cognitive and Behavioral Neuroscience/Premed

My name is Adaora Kanu, and I’m a 4th-year student from Mountain House, CA. I transferred to UCSD, so this is my second year here and my first year as an RA. Some of my hobbies include cosplaying, cross-stitch/embroidery, reading, braiding my hair, and doing my nails. As your RA, I’m here as a resource, whether you’re looking for fun events on campus, need help navigating UCSD, or just want a buddy to grab coffee with. I’m excited to meet all of you and to support you in making the most of your time here.

Alex she/her/ella Community: Rya 6-9 Transfer Student - Fourth year, Human Biology with a minor in Healthcare Social Issues Hometown: Oxnard, CA. My ins: Hot girl walks; Reggaeton; Spontaneous weekend backpacking trips; Reading at dog beach with treats in my pocket; A good sidequest; Going into the ocean; Health equity; Morning lifts blasting music & brunch after; Overcompetitive game nights; Lizard time at the beach; Advocating for transfers in the UC system! My outs: Parallel parking; Sparkling water (bottled TV static); All nighters; All dayers (Olympic Nap Team); Caffeine for breakfast; Living in the comfort zone; Imposter syndrome; Dairy (Natural selection is coming for me)

she/her/ella Community: Rya 6-9 Transfer Student - Fourth year, Human Biology with a minor in Healthcare Social Issues

Hometown: Oxnard, CA. My ins: Hot girl walks; Reggaeton; Spontaneous weekend backpacking trips; Reading at dog beach with treats in my pocket; A good sidequest; Going into the ocean; Health equity; Morning lifts blasting music & brunch after; Overcompetitive game nights; Lizard time at the beach; Advocating for transfers in the UC system! My outs: Parallel parking; Sparkling water (bottled TV static); All nighters; All dayers (Olympic Nap Team); Caffeine for breakfast; Living in the comfort zone; Imposter syndrome; Dairy (Natural selection is coming for me)

Alex he/him/él Community: Vela 11-14 Fourth year, Cognitive & Behavioral Neuroscience, Global Health Hello, everyone! I am Alex Gonzalez (he/him/él) and I am a fourth year student majoring in Cognitive and Behavioral Neuroscience and Global Health. I am originally from NorCal. I love listening to music, watching movies, playing video games, and reading. I am excited to meet you all and have a great year!

he/him/él Community: Vela 11-14 Fourth year, Cognitive & Behavioral Neuroscience, Global Health

Hello, everyone! I am Alex Gonzalez (he/him/él) and I am a fourth year student majoring in Cognitive and Behavioral Neuroscience and Global Health. I am originally from NorCal. I love listening to music, watching movies, playing video games, and reading. I am excited to meet you all and have a great year!

Camille she/her Community: Rya 2 Fourth year, Political Science and Creative Writing Hi! My name is Camille and I am a Fourth Year studying Political Science and Creative Writing. I'm passionate about writing, curating monthly Spotify playlists, long ocean swims in my beautiful hometown of San Diego, and trying new things as much as possible. I'm super excited to be a part of the PCW community and get to know all of my residents, let's have a great year!.

she/her Community: Rya 2 Fourth year, Political Science and Creative Writing

Hi! My name is Camille and I am a Fourth Year studying Political Science and Creative Writing. I'm passionate about writing, curating monthly Spotify playlists, long ocean swims in my beautiful hometown of San Diego, and trying new things as much as possible. I'm super excited to be a part of the PCW community and get to know all of my residents, let's have a great year!.

Devin he/him Community: Rya 5 Fourth year, Environmental Systems: Ecology, Behavior, and Evolution Hello everyone! My name is Devin Buss and I am a 3rd year student from San Diego, CA. I am majoring in Environmental Systems: Ecology, Behavior, and Evolution. I enjoy backpacking, hiking, comic books, video games, and volleyball. I look forward to meeting everyone!

he/him Community: Rya 5 Fourth year, Environmental Systems: Ecology, Behavior, and Evolution

Hello everyone! My name is Devin Buss and I am a 3rd year student from San Diego, CA. I am majoring in Environmental Systems: Ecology, Behavior, and Evolution. I enjoy backpacking, hiking, comic books, video games, and volleyball. I look forward to meeting everyone!

Elena she/her Community: Vela 1-2 Third year, International Business and International Relations Hello! I'm Elena and I'm from a small town called Riverdale here in California! I am going into my third year and I'm excited to meet you all! I enjoy accepting random side quests so let me know.

she/her Community: Vela 1-2 Third year, International Business and International Relations

Hello! I'm Elena and I'm from a small town called Riverdale here in California! I am going into my third year and I'm excited to meet you all! I enjoy accepting random side quests so let me know.

Jayden he/him Community: Vela 6-10 Fourth year, Business Economics Hey! My name is Jayden and I am a fourth year student studying Business Economics and Digital Video/Film Production from Sixth College. I love photography and buying blind boxes. I also love Taylor Swift and SZA. I look forward to building community as an RA and meeting you all.

he/him Community: Vela 6-10 Fourth year, Business Economics

Hey! My name is Jayden and I am a fourth year student studying Business Economics and Digital Video/Film Production from Sixth College. I love photography and buying blind boxes. I also love Taylor Swift and SZA. I look forward to building community as an RA and meeting you all.

Julia she/her Community: Rya 10-13 Fourth year, Human Biology Hi everyone! My name is Julia, and I'm a fourth year human biology major in Sixth and am from Torrance, California. I enjoy playing volleyball, reading, and doing anything artsy and crafty in my free time. On campus, I like to do pottery, go boxing, and work in the EMS at UC San Diego organization. I can't wait to meet you all and have an amazing year together!

she/her Community: Rya 10-13 Fourth year, Human Biology

Hi everyone! My name is Julia, and I'm a fourth year human biology major in Sixth and am from Torrance, California. I enjoy playing volleyball, reading, and doing anything artsy and crafty in my free time. On campus, I like to do pottery, go boxing, and work in the EMS at UC San Diego organization. I can't wait to meet you all and have an amazing year together!

Kate she/her Community: Rya 14-17 First Year Graduate Student, CSE Hey everyone! My name is Kate and I'm first year grad student in CSE. In my free time, I enjoy board games and antique shopping. I'm so excited for my second year on the PCW RA team!

she/her Community: Rya 14-17 First Year Graduate Student, CSE

Hey everyone! My name is Kate and I'm first year grad student in CSE. In my free time, I enjoy board games and antique shopping. I'm so excited for my second year on the PCW RA team!

Konatsu she/her Community: Vela 3 Transfer Student - Fourth year, Bioengineering Hi! My name is Konatsu Nagashima and I am a 4th year student from Torrance, CA. I am majoring in Bioengineering and this will be my 2nd year being an RA. I enjoy running, watching tv, and listening to music. I’m here to help build a welcoming community where you feel comfortable, supported, and connected: looking forward to meeting you all!

she/her Community: Vela 3 Transfer Student - Fourth year, Bioengineering

Hi! My name is Konatsu Nagashima and I am a 4th year student from Torrance, CA. I am majoring in Bioengineering and this will be my 2nd year being an RA. I enjoy running, watching tv, and listening to music. I’m here to help build a welcoming community where you feel comfortable, supported, and connected: looking forward to meeting you all!

Meg she/her Community: Rya 3 Fourth year, Human Developmental Sciences and Political Science; International Relations Hi PCW besties, my name is Meg and I am the third floor RA in Rya. The theme I selected for my floor is Club Penguin and I refer to my residents as the "Club Ryans". This is my second year being an RA, and some of my favorite events from last year were “Let’s Talk About Anxie-tea” (with boba ft. CAPS), “May Flowers”, as well as “Paint and Sip Soda”! I look forward to seeing you at my events this year :)

she/her Community: Rya 3 Fourth year, Human Developmental Sciences and Political Science; International Relations

Hi PCW besties, my name is Meg and I am the third floor RA in Rya. The theme I selected for my floor is Club Penguin and I refer to my residents as the "Club Ryans". This is my second year being an RA, and some of my favorite events from last year were “Let’s Talk About Anxie-tea” (with boba ft. CAPS), “May Flowers”, as well as “Paint and Sip Soda”! I look forward to seeing you at my events this year :)

Megan she/her Community: Vela 19-23 First Year Masters Student, Biology Hi everyone! My name is Megan and I'm a Master's student studying biology, and I'm from right here in San Diego, CA! This will be my fourth year as an RA with our wonderful transfer and upper division housing ares, though I'm originally a Sixth College student. Outside of my role as an RA, you can find me in my research lab or playing for the UCSD club Women's Rugby team (and will probably try to recruit you to join at some point)! Let's have a great year :)

she/her Community: Vela 19-23 First Year Masters Student, Biology

Hi everyone! My name is Megan and I'm a Master's student studying biology, and I'm from right here in San Diego, CA! This will be my fourth year as an RA with our wonderful transfer and upper division housing ares, though I'm originally a Sixth College student. Outside of my role as an RA, you can find me in my research lab or playing for the UCSD club Women's Rugby team (and will probably try to recruit you to join at some point)! Let's have a great year :)

Nairobi she/her Community: Vela 15-18 Third year, Biochemistry Hey everyone! I'm Nairobi, and I am a third-year Biochemistry student from Seventh College. I am from Compton, California, and I'm excited to be your RA this academic year! Some fun facts about me are that in my free time I enjoy reading, drawing, baking, and listening to music. If you see me around, please don't hesitate to stop and chat with me!

she/her Community: Vela 15-18 Third year, Biochemistry

Hey everyone! I'm Nairobi, and I am a third-year Biochemistry student from Seventh College. I am from Compton, California, and I'm excited to be your RA this academic year! Some fun facts about me are that in my free time I enjoy reading, drawing, baking, and listening to music. If you see me around, please don't hesitate to stop and chat with me!

Yamilet she/her Community: Rya 18-22 Third year, Neurobiology major Hi everyone! My name is Yamilet and I’m excited to be your RA this year. I’m a Neurobiology major from Sixth College, and I am originally from the Dominican Republic (BiG DoMinICan!!). I love going on adventures, exploring new cultures, and connecting with people. This past summer I got to study abroad in Beijing, which was AMAZING! Can’t wait to get to know you all and make this year unforgettable

she/her Community: Rya 18-22 Third year, Neurobiology major

Hi everyone! My name is Yamilet and I’m excited to be your RA this year. I’m a Neurobiology major from Sixth College, and I am originally from the Dominican Republic (BiG DoMinICan!!). I love going on adventures, exploring new cultures, and connecting with people. This past summer I got to study abroad in Beijing, which was AMAZING! Can’t wait to get to know you all and make this year unforgettable

The Rita Atkinson Residences Resident Assistants

Ainsley she/her Community: Rita 2nd Floor Transfer Student - Fourth year, Business Psychology Hi everyone! My name is Ainsley Bock and I am an ERC transfer student from Sacramento, CA. I am studying business psychology and I enjoy reading, painting, and surfing in my free time. As a Sustainability Ambassador for HDH here on campus, I am super passionate about all things sustainability and helping build the wonderful community we all get to be apart of. Please reach out with any questions or concerns, or just to say hi!

she/her Community: Rita 2nd Floor Transfer Student - Fourth year, Business Psychology

Hi everyone! My name is Ainsley Bock and I am an ERC transfer student from Sacramento, CA. I am studying business psychology and I enjoy reading, painting, and surfing in my free time. As a Sustainability Ambassador for HDH here on campus, I am super passionate about all things sustainability and helping build the wonderful community we all get to be apart of. Please reach out with any questions or concerns, or just to say hi!

Andy he/him Community: Rita 5th Floor Fourth year, Computer Science Hi everyone! My name is Andy Smithwick, and I'm a 4th year computer science major originally from Revelle. Professionally, I've done a mix of research and industry, so I'm happy to talk about both! In my free time, I love to chase bioluminescence on the beach at night and play 8 ball.

he/him Community: Rita 5th Floor Fourth year, Computer Science

Hi everyone! My name is Andy Smithwick, and I'm a 4th year computer science major originally from Revelle. Professionally, I've done a mix of research and industry, so I'm happy to talk about both! In my free time, I love to chase bioluminescence on the beach at night and play 8 ball.

Catherine she/her Community: Rita 3rd Floor Fourth year, Public Health (Medicine Sciences) Hi everyone! My name is Catherine, a fourth year Public Health major with minors in Biology & Human Developmental Sciences. I grew up in both the Orange County & Inland Empire regions of CA! Besides my role as an RA, I enjoy spending my time at the Craft Center wheel throwing, concert going, and going out to eat with my friends! Don't be afraid to reach out if you have questions, want to chat, or need food recommendations :)

she/her Community: Rita 3rd Floor Fourth year, Public Health (Medicine Sciences)

Hi everyone! My name is Catherine, a fourth year Public Health major with minors in Biology & Human Developmental Sciences. I grew up in both the Orange County & Inland Empire regions of CA! Besides my role as an RA, I enjoy spending my time at the Craft Center wheel throwing, concert going, and going out to eat with my friends! Don't be afraid to reach out if you have questions, want to chat, or need food recommendations :)

Emiri she/her Community: Rita 6th Floor Fourth year, Chemical Engineering and Biochemistry Hello everyone! My name is Emiri, and I’m a fourth-year student at Seventh College, majoring in chemical engineering and biochemistry. I’m from Irvine, CA. Outside of classes, I enjoy reading, taking walks around the campus, and occasionally watching baseball games. I look forward to working as a Rita RA again and meeting everyone!

she/her Community: Rita 6th Floor Fourth year, Chemical Engineering and Biochemistry

Hello everyone! My name is Emiri, and I’m a fourth-year student at Seventh College, majoring in chemical engineering and biochemistry. I’m from Irvine, CA. Outside of classes, I enjoy reading, taking walks around the campus, and occasionally watching baseball games. I look forward to working as a Rita RA again and meeting everyone!

Jackson he/him Community: Rita 8th Floor Fourth year, Aerospace Engineering Hello UDH residents! I’m Jackson, and this is my second year serving as an RA for UDH. I grew up in the Bay Area, and I’m a part of Seventh College here at UCSD. My favorite things to do are early-morning swims, cooking new recipes, and taking long walks. I love a good conversation, so I look forward to connecting with our community and learn about all of your stories!

he/him Community: Rita 8th Floor Fourth year, Aerospace Engineering

Hello UDH residents! I’m Jackson, and this is my second year serving as an RA for UDH. I grew up in the Bay Area, and I’m a part of Seventh College here at UCSD. My favorite things to do are early-morning swims, cooking new recipes, and taking long walks. I love a good conversation, so I look forward to connecting with our community and learn about all of your stories!

Jadyn she/her Community: Rita 6th Floor Second year, Neurobiology and Climate Change & Human Solutions Hello Hello! My name is Jadyn, a second-year Eighth College student majoring in Neurobiology and Climate Change & Human Solutions. When I'm not in class, you can catch me playing for UCSD's club volleyball and beach volleyball teams. I also love going outdoors on lovely hiking excursions (let me know if you want any recs)! I'm originally from Santa Clarita California (the wonderful home of Six Flags). A few fun facts about me are that I speak English, Spanish, and am currently learning Swahili and brushing up on my Mandarin. If you are ever bored around campus, come chat with me! I have a bunch of opportunities, events, and hobbies I'd love to share.

she/her Community: Rita 6th Floor Second year, Neurobiology and Climate Change & Human Solutions

Hello Hello! My name is Jadyn, a second-year Eighth College student majoring in Neurobiology and Climate Change & Human Solutions. When I'm not in class, you can catch me playing for UCSD's club volleyball and beach volleyball teams. I also love going outdoors on lovely hiking excursions (let me know if you want any recs)! I'm originally from Santa Clarita California (the wonderful home of Six Flags). A few fun facts about me are that I speak English, Spanish, and am currently learning Swahili and brushing up on my Mandarin. If you are ever bored around campus, come chat with me! I have a bunch of opportunities, events, and hobbies I'd love to share.

Jordan she/her Community: Rita 7th Floor Third year, Communication Hi! I'm Jordan and I am from Rowland Heights, CA. I am a Communication major, Marketing minor and am originally from Seventh College. I love dancing, matcha, horror movies, and am always down for a kbbq run. I'm super excited to be apart of this community and feel free to reach out!

she/her Community: Rita 7th Floor Third year, Communication

Hi! I'm Jordan and I am from Rowland Heights, CA. I am a Communication major, Marketing minor and am originally from Seventh College. I love dancing, matcha, horror movies, and am always down for a kbbq run. I'm super excited to be apart of this community and feel free to reach out!

Julianna she/her Community: Rita 3rd Floor Third year, Business Economics with a minor in Cognitive Science Hello, my name is Julianna Ybarra. I'm a third year student who has always been involved in the UCSD community. Being an RA has allowed me to form many great connections with students and see real change in their lives. Outside of my RA role, you will find me either swimming at the beach, crocheting, or reading.

she/her Community: Rita 3rd Floor Third year, Business Economics with a minor in Cognitive Science

Hello, my name is Julianna Ybarra. I'm a third year student who has always been involved in the UCSD community. Being an RA has allowed me to form many great connections with students and see real change in their lives. Outside of my RA role, you will find me either swimming at the beach, crocheting, or reading.

Madeline she/her Community: Rita 2nd Floor Transfer Student - First Year Master's Student, Electrical Engineering Hello! My name is Madeline, and I'm a first-year master's student at Jacob's School of Engineering. I transferred to UCSD in Fall of 2022, and I've been in love with San Diego ever since.

she/her Community: Rita 2nd Floor Transfer Student - First Year Master's Student, Electrical Engineering

Hello! My name is Madeline, and I'm a first-year master's student at Jacob's School of Engineering. I transferred to UCSD in Fall of 2022, and I've been in love with San Diego ever since.

Megan she/her Community: Rita 1st Floor Third year, Political Science Hello! My name is Megan, and I'm a third-year ERC student from Corona, CA. I am majoring in Political Science - Public Law and minoring in Sociology. I plan to be a family lawyer! In my free time, I enjoy thrifting, going to concerts, collecting trinkets, and coloring. I'm excited to meet all of you!:)

she/her Community: Rita 1st Floor Third year, Political Science

Hello! My name is Megan, and I'm a third-year ERC student from Corona, CA. I am majoring in Political Science - Public Law and minoring in Sociology. I plan to be a family lawyer! In my free time, I enjoy thrifting, going to concerts, collecting trinkets, and coloring. I'm excited to meet all of you!:)

Michael he/him Community: Rita 9th Floor Transfer Student - Fourth year, Psychology Hello all! My name is Michael Ruby, I'm a fourth year psychology student in Warren College. I'm going to be an Residential Assistant (RA) for the Rita Atkinson residences 9th floor. Some of my hobbies include video journaling, working out, and binge watching reality TV. As a transfer student I'm so excited to connect with other transfer students and share impactful resources.

he/him Community: Rita 9th Floor Transfer Student - Fourth year, Psychology

Hello all! My name is Michael Ruby, I'm a fourth year psychology student in Warren College. I'm going to be an Residential Assistant (RA) for the Rita Atkinson residences 9th floor. Some of my hobbies include video journaling, working out, and binge watching reality TV. As a transfer student I'm so excited to connect with other transfer students and share impactful resources.

Santos he/him Community: Rita 5th Floor Fourth year, Aerospace Engineering

he/him Community: Rita 5th Floor Fourth year, Aerospace Engineering

Nicole she/her Community: Rita 7th Floor Fourth year, Human Biology Hi everyone! My name is Nicole Tran, and I'm a fourth year Human Biology major with a double minor in Music & Psychology at Warren College. This is my second year as an RA at the Rita. In my free time, I love reading, playing piano, and hanging out with my friends. I'm so excited to get to know everyone and I'm looking forward to a great year!

she/her Community: Rita 7th Floor Fourth year, Human Biology

Hi everyone! My name is Nicole Tran, and I'm a fourth year Human Biology major with a double minor in Music & Psychology at Warren College. This is my second year as an RA at the Rita. In my free time, I love reading, playing piano, and hanging out with my friends. I'm so excited to get to know everyone and I'm looking forward to a great year!

Shaina she/her Community: Rita 4th Floor Second year, Political Science & Communications Hi everyone, my name is Shaina and I am currently majoring in both Political Science and Communication and minoring in Philosophy. My favorite hobbies include crocheting and watching movies with my siblings. I am very excited to be a RA this year!

she/her Community: Rita 4th Floor Second year, Political Science & Communications

Hi everyone, my name is Shaina and I am currently majoring in both Political Science and Communication and minoring in Philosophy. My favorite hobbies include crocheting and watching movies with my siblings. I am very excited to be a RA this year!

Theophany she/her Community: Rita 4th Floor Second year, Public Health Hi everyone! My name is Theophany, and I’m a second-year Public Health major. I’m originally from Poway and a proud San Diego local. I love spending time at the beach and am always on the lookout for new spots to eat or grab a sweet treat. I’m here as a resource for all of you, so please don’t hesitate to reach out, whether you have questions or just want to hang out. I can’t wait to meet everyone and make the most of this year together!

she/her Community: Rita 4th Floor Second year, Public Health

Hi everyone! My name is Theophany, and I’m a second-year Public Health major. I’m originally from Poway and a proud San Diego local. I love spending time at the beach and am always on the lookout for new spots to eat or grab a sweet treat. I’m here as a resource for all of you, so please don’t hesitate to reach out, whether you have questions or just want to hang out. I can’t wait to meet everyone and make the most of this year together!

Residential Community Organizers

Aleena she/her Community: Pepper Canyon West Transfer Student - Fourth year, Political Science: Data Analytics Hello everyone! My name is Aleena and I am currently a fourth year majoring in political science with a concentration in data analytics. I'm so excited to create fun and engaging events for UD Housing with our team this year. Please reach out to us with questions, concerns, and feedback on our events!

Community: Pepper Canyon West

Transfer Student - Fourth year, Political Science: Data Analytics

Hello everyone! My name is Aleena and I am currently a fourth year majoring in political science with a concentration in data analytics. I'm so excited to create fun and engaging events for UD Housing with our team this year. Please reach out to us with questions, concerns, and feedback on our events!

Allison she/her Community: Rita Atkinson Residences Fourth year, Cognitive Science (Interaction & Design) My favorite side quest is walking to Gliderport to watch the sunset. Sometimes the view isn’t worth the walk, but at least I get to see cute little dogs along the way. I’m also a big fan of anything adorable and already have a growing collection of trinkets in my dorm room! Overall, I’m always down to try new things and know a few great spots to grab a good latte :)

Community: Rita Atkinson Residences

Fourth year, Cognitive Science (Interaction & Design)

My favorite side quest is walking to Gliderport to watch the sunset. Sometimes the view isn’t worth the walk, but at least I get to see cute little dogs along the way. I’m also a big fan of anything adorable and already have a growing collection of trinkets in my dorm room! Overall, I’m always down to try new things and know a few great spots to grab a good latte :)

Alok he/him Community: Rita Atkinson Residences Third year, Economics Hi, my name is Alok Reddy, and I'm a third-year student excited to serve as one of your RCOs this year! I'm looking forward to planning fun, engaging events that help everyone connect, relax, and make the most of their time in upper-division housing. Can't wait to meet you all and build an awesome community together! My favorite downtime activity is watching sports with friends.

Community: Rita Atkinson Residences

Third year, Economics

Ashutosh he/him Community: Pepper Canyon East Third year, Economics Hey everyone! I’m Ashutosh — a junior studying Economics from India who’s equally obsessed with cricket and stock market charts. When I’m not tracking trades or planning my next finance project, you’ll probably find me hyping up ideas for our next big event. Can’t wait to bring that same energy to hosting some insanely fun nights for all our residents this year!

Community: Pepper Canyon East

Third year, Economics

Hey everyone! I’m Ashutosh — a junior studying Economics from India who’s equally obsessed with cricket and stock market charts. When I’m not tracking trades or planning my next finance project, you’ll probably find me hyping up ideas for our next big event. Can’t wait to bring that same energy to hosting some insanely fun nights for all our residents this year!

Elaine she/her Community: Pepper Canyon West Transfer Student: Third Year, Cog Sci Design and Interaction Hi my name is Elaine and I am a transfer student from my hometown in LA! I love love love drinking boba, in fact, I have a whole list with every place I've tried and there's 80+ places that I've tried. I also have 2 lovely cats at home!

Community: Pepper Canyon West

Transfer Student: Third Year, Cog Sci Design and Interaction

Hi my name is Elaine and I am a transfer student from my hometown in LA! I love love love drinking boba, in fact, I have a whole list with every place I've tried and there's 80+ places that I've tried. I also have 2 lovely cats at home!

Erick he/him Community: Pepepr Canyon East Third year, Cognitive Psychology and Political Science (Public Law) Hello! My name is Erick, and I'm a third-year Seventh college student double majoring in Cognitive Psychology and Politcal Science (Public Law) and a minor in Spanish Literature. I'm originally from the Bay Area.

Community: Pepepr Canyon East

Third year, Cognitive Psychology and Political Science (Public Law)

Hello! My name is Erick, and I'm a third-year Seventh college student double majoring in Cognitive Psychology and Politcal Science (Public Law) and a minor in Spanish Literature. I'm originally from the Bay Area.

Jorge he/him Community: Pangea Third year, Structural Engineering Hey! I’m Jorge, and I'm a 3rd year Structural Engineering major from Berkeley, CA. I’m super into fitness, music, coffee, thrifting, and spending time outdoors. I’m all about good food and making the most out of every moment. As an RCO, I’m excited to plan events and create spaces where everyone can relax, connect, and have fun. If you ever have ideas or just want to chat, I’d love to hear them!

Community: Pangea

Third year, Structural Engineering

Hey! I’m Jorge, and I'm a 3rd year Structural Engineering major from Berkeley, CA. I’m super into fitness, music, coffee, thrifting, and spending time outdoors. I’m all about good food and making the most out of every moment. As an RCO, I’m excited to plan events and create spaces where everyone can relax, connect, and have fun. If you ever have ideas or just want to chat, I’d love to hear them!

Joyce she/her Community: Pangea Second year, Computer Science Hi, I am Joyce. I am a sophomore from Muir College, from San Marcos, CA. I love food a lot so feel free to ask me about food recommendation around campus or off-campus. At my free time, I love listening to music (mostly R&B, songs by Khalil Fong, or hip-hop music), I also go to the beach to surf all the time.

Community: Pangea

Second year, Computer Science

Hi, I am Joyce. I am a sophomore from Muir College, from San Marcos, CA. I love food a lot so feel free to ask me about food recommendation around campus or off-campus. At my free time, I love listening to music (mostly R&B, songs by Khalil Fong, or hip-hop music), I also go to the beach to surf all the time.

Krylle she/her Community: Pangea Transfer Student: Third year, Human Biology Hey everyone! My name is Krylle and I'm in my third year majoring in Human Biology. In my free time, I enjoy board games, watching movies, and hiking. I'm so excited to create a meaningful experience within upper-division housing this year. My favorite downtime activity: My favorite downtown activity is walking at night. This helps me clear my mind and relax!

Community: Pangea

Transfer Student: Third year, Human Biology

Francisco he/him Community: Pepper Canyon West Third year, Data Science Hi! My name is Francisco Zhao, and I'm a 4th-year transfer student majoring in Data Science. I'm passionate about community building and cultural events - I currently serve as the Vice President of UCSD CSSA and as an RCO at PCE, where I enjoy organizing events that connect residents and celebrate diversity. I enjoy playing badminton, snowboarding, exploring new cafes, watching documentaries, and working on small data or finance projects.

Community: Pepper Canyon West

Third year, Data Science

Hi! My name is Francisco Zhao, and I'm a 4th-year transfer student majoring in Data Science. I'm passionate about community building and cultural events - I currently serve as the Vice President of UCSD CSSA and as an RCO at PCE, where I enjoy organizing events that connect residents and celebrate diversity. I enjoy playing badminton, snowboarding, exploring new cafes, watching documentaries, and working on small data or finance projects.

Parth he/him Community: Pepper Canyon East Third year, Math-Econ Hello everyone! My name is Parth Jindal and I am a 3rd year Math-Econ student from India. This is my second year as an RCO and I am so excited for the rest of the year. I enjoy watching movies, play pool/snooker, and listening to country music. I look forward to meeting everyone and conducting engaging events for the Upper Division Housing

Community: Pepper Canyon East

Third year, Math-Econ

Hello everyone! My name is Parth Jindal and I am a 3rd year Math-Econ student from India. This is my second year as an RCO and I am so excited for the rest of the year. I enjoy watching movies, play pool/snooker, and listening to country music. I look forward to meeting everyone and conducting engaging events for the Upper Division Housing

Program Coordinators

Rachel Lynn Program Coordinator Email: r1lynn@ucsd.edu Phone: 858-534-9138 Located at Pepper Canyon West

Program Coordinator

Email: r1lynn@ucsd.edu Phone: 858-534-9138

Located at Pepper Canyon West

Virgil Collado Program Coordinator Email: vcollado@ucsd.edu Phone: 858-534-9191 Located at Pepper Canyon East & Matthews Apartments

Program Coordinator

Email: vcollado@ucsd.edu Phone: 858-534-9191

Located at Pepper Canyon East & Matthews Apartments

Mariana Valdivieso Program Coordinator Email: mvaldivieso@ucsd.edu Phone: 858-822-3801 Located at Pangea Apartments & Residence Halls

Mariana Valdivieso

Program Coordinator

Email: mvaldivieso@ucsd.edu Phone: 858-822-3801

Located at Pangea Apartments & Residence Halls

Zoë Giblin Program Coordinator Email: zagiblin@ucsd.edu Phone: 858-534-6056 Located at Rita Atkinson Residences

Program Coordinator

Email: zagiblin@ucsd.edu Phone: 858-534-6056

Located at Rita Atkinson Residences

Assistant Director of Student Behavior and Support

Monique Lynch Email: m8lynch@ucsd.edu Phone: 858-534-9138 Assistant Director of Student Behavior and Support, Upper Division Housing

Email: m8lynch@ucsd.edu

Phone: 858-534-9138

Assistant Director of Student Behavior and Support, Upper Division Housing

Assistant Directors of Residence Life

Jada DaMae Anderson Email: jda003@ucsd.edu Phone: 858-534-9138 ADRL for Pepper Canyon West Neighborhood

Jada DaMae Anderson

Email: jda003@ucsd.edu Phone: 858-534-9138

ADRL for Pepper Canyon West Neighborhood

Maura Sparrevohn Email: msparrevohn@UCSD.EDU Phone: 858-534-9191 ADRL for Pepper Canyon East Residences & Matthews Apartments

Maura Sparrevohn

Email: msparrevohn@UCSD.EDU Phone: 858-534-9191

ADRL for Pepper Canyon East Residences & Matthews Apartments

Brittany Brogan Email: bjbrogan@ucsd.edu Phone: 858-822-3801 ADRL for Pangea Apartments & Residence Halls

Email: bjbrogan@ucsd.edu Phone: 858-822-3801

ADRL for Pangea Apartments & Residence Halls

Melissa Mérida-Ram Email: mmerida@ucsd.edu Phone: 858-534-6056 ADRL for Rita Atkinson Residences

Melissa Mérida-Ram

Email: mmerida@ucsd.edu Phone: 858-534-6056 ADRL for Rita Atkinson Residences

Associate Director of Upper Division Housing

Federica Bucca Email: fbucca@ucsd.edu Phone: 858-534-9138 Associate Director of Upper Division Housing

Email: fbucca@ucsd.edu Phone: 858-534-9138

Associate Director of Upper Division Housing

Director of Graduate, Family, and Upper Division Housing

Willie Lee II Email: wleeii@ucsd.edu Phone: 858.822.2460 Director of Graduate, Family, and Upper Division Housing

Email: wleeii@ucsd.edu Phone: 858.822.2460

Director of Graduate, Family, and Upper Division Housing

HDH Undergraduate Neighborhoods

Getting Involved

Resident Resources

Community Policies and Conduct

Pangea Apartments & Residence Halls

Pepper Canyon East & Matthews Apartments

Pepper Canyon West

Rita Atkinson Residences

Upper Division Housing Residence Life Staff

Families and Friends

Residence Life Offices Contact Information