Hepatitis A, B and C

Hepatitis A, B and C

Hepatitis A is a highly contagious disease spread through close person-to-person contact and by consuming contaminated food or drinks. Not everyone with Hepatitis A has symptoms but adults are more likely to develop symptoms than children. If symptoms develop, it’s usually 2-7 weeks after exposure to the virus and may last from 2-6 months. Common symptoms of Hepatitis A include diarrhea, joint pain, fever, fatigue, loss of appetite, nausea and vomiting, dark colored urine, and yellowing of the skin and/or eyes.

Individuals with Hepatitis A are contagious for 2-5 weeks: the 2 weeks before symptoms begin and for 3 weeks after symptoms develop. Because the virus doesn’t always cause symptoms, people may spread the virus without knowing they’re sick. Blood tests can be used to diagnose Hepatitis A infection and treatment recommendations include rest, increased oral fluid intake to maintain hydration, and avoiding substances that stress the liver. Medical evaluation is recommended for anyone exposed to or suspected of having Hepatitis A.

The best way to prevent Hepatitis A infection is to get vaccinated. Practicing good hygiene is another important prevention method. Using soap and water to wash hands, particularly before and after eating and after using the restroom, is imperative. It’s also advised to avoid sharing drinks, food, or eating utensils.

The Hepatitis A vaccine, HAVRIX, is available at SHS and is recommended for all persons over the age of 2. It is a 2-dose series administered 6 months apart. Most people vaccinated against Hepatitis A are immune for life. Learn more about the Hepatitis A vaccine and how to schedule a Nurses’ Clinic vaccination appointment .

Hepatitis B is a highly contagious disease spread through contact with infected blood and/or other bodily fluids including amniotic fluid, menstrual fluid, saliva, semen, and vaginal fluid. It is the most common liver infection in the world, affecting an estimated 250 million people worldwide. There are two types of Hepatitis B infection, acute and chronic. Acute is a short-term illness that occurs within the first 6 months of exposure to the Hepatitis B virus. Chronic infection develops from acute Hepatitis B and, if left untreated, can cause serious health problems such as liver failure, cirrhosis, and death.

Many individuals infected with Hepatitis B don’t develop symptoms but are contagious the entire time the virus is active in their body. If symptoms do occur during acute infection, they typically begin 90 days after exposure and the acute infection can last 6 months. Symptoms of Hepatitis B include dark colored urine, fatigue, fever, joint pain, decreased appetite, nausea and vomiting, diarrhea, abdominal pain, and yellowing of skin and/or eyes. While symptoms of acute and chronic Hepatitis B virus are similar, most people with chronic infection do not experience symptoms until later in life, often decades after exposure, but are contagious forever once infected.

Blood tests are used to diagnose Hepatitis B infection and treatment recommendations include rest, increased oral fluid intake to maintain hydration, and promoting adequate nutrition. Medical evaluation is highly recommended for anyone exposed to or suspected of having Hepatitis B as it may be necessary to monitor an infected person’s liver function. There are no medications to treat acute Hepatitis B infection but there are some medications used for chronic Hepatitis B, although they are not a cure and don’t work for everyone.

The best way to prevent Hepatitis B infection is to get vaccinated. Practicing safe sexual practices, refraining from needle-sharing, and avoiding sharing of personal items are also important in preventing the spread of Hepatitis B virus. Persons with high-risk jobs, such as healthcare workers, should get vaccinated against Hepatitis B due to increased risk of exposure.

The Hepatitis B vaccine is available at SHS and is recommended for all persons beginning at birth. It is a 3-dose series administered over 6 months. Most people who are vaccinated against Hepatitis B are immune for life. Learn more about the Hepatitis B vaccine and how to schedule a Nurses’ Clinic vaccination appointment .

Hepatitis C is a highly contagious disease spread through contact with infected blood, which causes inflammation and damages the liver. There are two types of Hepatitis C infection, acute and chronic, both of which can cause serious illness including liver cancer, liver failure, and death. It is estimated that 2-4 million people in the United States have chronic Hepatitis C, many of whom are unaware they are infected.

Many individuals infected with Hepatitis C don’t have symptoms. If symptoms do occur during acute infection, they typically begin 2-12 weeks after exposure and may seem flu-like in nature. Symptoms of acute Hepatitis C include dark colored urine, fatigue, fever, joint pain, decreased appetite, nausea and vomiting, diarrhea, abdominal pain, and yellowing of skin and/or eyes. Chronic Hepatitis C symptoms may develop over months and years as the illness progresses and include confusion, changes in mood/behavior, excessive bleeding, worsening yellowing of the skin/eyes, upper left abdominal pain, swollen abdomen, unexplained weight gain, vomiting blood, and red/dark-colored skin on the palms. Infected individuals, both acute and chronic, can spread the virus to others.

Blood testing is the only way to know if a person is infected with Hepatitis C. The Centers for Disease Control (CDC) recommends testing for all adults, all pregnant people, and anyone with suspected or known exposure. Early diagnosis and treatment with oral medications can prevent liver damage and cure Hepatitis C in most patients. It is imperative to seek medical evaluation right away for any known or suspected exposure to Hepatitis C.

There is no vaccination available to prevent Hepatitis C infection. The best way to prevent the spread of Hepatitis C is to avoid behaviors that spread the disease such as sharing or reusing needles or other personal items that might come into contact with infected blood. Learn more about Hepatitis C .

Centers for Disease Control – Hepatitis A Basics

Centers for Disease Control – Hepatitis B Basics

Centers for Disease Control – Hepatitis C Basics

If you are currently sick or injured and need medical advice, call (858) 534-3300 to speak with a registered nurse who can provide guidance. This service is available 24/7 to all students at no cost. You may also message the nursing team during regular hours via MyStudentChart: Menu > Student Health Ask-a-Nurse.

Advance Directives

Alcohol and Other Drugs

Breast & Testicular Health

Conjunctivitis (Pink Eye)

Eating Disorders

Emergency Contraception

Gastroesophageal Reflux Disease (GERD)

Gynecologic Cancers (PDF)

Hepatitis A, B and C

Human Papillomavirus (HPV)

Medication Abortion

Methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA)

Molluscum Contagiosum

Painful Periods (Dysmenorrhea)

Pelvic Inflammatory Disease (PID)

Physical Activity

Plant Dermatitis

Polycystic Ovary Syndrome (PCOS)

Pregnancy Testing

Temporomandibular Joint Disorders (TMJ)

Urinary Tract Infections (UTIs)

Vaginal Infections