Student Services

Preparing for Graduation

Program Completion

Program Completion

Students completing their program of study at UC San Diego have several options following their final term.

Understand your Grace Period

The program end date on your I-20 or DS-2019 will be adjusted to the last day of your final quarter of study. Graduate students that have filed in lieu of registration for their final term will have a program end date of their date of defense.

If your most recent I-20 or DS-2019 shows a program end date beyond your final quarter of study, ISEO will automatically adjust your program end date to the accurate final term. Your grace period begins on the day after your true program end date.

F-1 students have a 60-day grace period following the last day of your final quarter of enrollment.

J-1 students have a 30-day grace period following the last day of your final quarter of enrollment.

Students MUST take action during their grace period , or they must leave the U.S. before their grace period ends. View our Grace Periods page to learn more about what options you have available to you.

Note: If you depart the U.S. during your grace period, you may not re-enter the U.S. with your completed I-20/DS-2019 and F-1/J-1 student visa.

Commencement and Visa Support Letters

Information about upcoming Commencement ceremonies can be found on the UC San Diego Commencement website . To support our international students and their guests who wish to attend in person, please review the following information and resources .

Commencement Ceremonies OUTSIDE of F/J Grace Period:

International students must take action within their grace periods that follow program completion. Students who take action that result in their SEVIS records remaining active (such as applying for OPT or transferring to a new U.S. Institution for graduate studies) may continue to remain in the U.S. beyond grace periods. Students who do not take action to maintain an active record during their grace period will have their SEVIS Record automatically completed and are advised to depart. This may be common for students graduating in the Fall or Winter terms and may have their grace periods end before UC San Diego's standard summer commencement dates. Students who wish to re-enter the U.S. outside of their grace periods for purpose of graduation, visiting with friends and family, or simply returning to the U.S. for vacation must apply for or use a different visa type that suites their purpose, such as the B1/B2 Visa.

Students must inquire directly with the Department of State to understand eligibility and application or B1/B2 Visas , or visa waiver programs .

Visa Support Letter:

If your family members or friends are planning to apply for a U.S. visa at a U.S. embassy or consulate in order to attend your graduation ceremony, they may ask you to supply them with an invitation letter. Since U.S. embassies and consulates do not require invitation letters issued by the school, ISEO does not provide any kind of invitation letters, including ones for graduation/commencement ceremony.

However, you are encouraged to write your own invitation letter. You can use this sample invitation letter , or search for another template online. Keep in mind that such a letter does not guarantee a visa will be granted during your friend's or family member’s visa interview, nor is it required for the interview.

You might also want to supplement your invitation letter with proof of your current or previous attendance at UC San Diego. The following are the most common options:

Enrollment Verification Documents for currently enrolled students.

Visa Status Verification Letters for currently enrolled students or students in a post-completion F-1 OPT,/STEM OPT, or J-1 Academic Training work authorization period.

Visa Wait Times:

Visa processing services at U.S. consulates and embassies abroad is on a post-by-post basis, meaning some have longer wait times than others. We advise those individuals who are permitted to enter the U.S. and who need a visa to check U.S. Department of States Visa Wait Times website to learn how long processing might take.

Filing for Graduation

If you are an undergraduate student finishing your bachelor degree requirements, then you should follow the directions here to file for your degree.

If you are a graduate student finishing your master or doctorate degree requirement, then you should follow the directions here to file for you degree.

ISEO does not handle diploma matters, the Registrar's Office does. If you have any questions about your diploma, please contact the Registrar's Office .

You will automatically receive a UC San Diego diploma upon successful completion of your university and degree requirements. Diplomas are mailed to the student's permanent address 3 to 6 months after the end of the quarter of graduation.

Visit our Changing Address page for information on how to change your diploma mailing address.

About Dean's Congratulatory Letters for Graduate Students:

UC San Diego uses a student's preferred name in all university communications (with the exception of certain legal documents). Upon degree completion, Division of Graduate Education and Postdoctoral Affairs issues the Dean's congratulatory letter to the student using the student's preferred name as listed in university systems.

Note, there may be instances when international students are required to show their legal name listed on the Dean’s congratulatory letter when applying for immigration benefits with U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS). International students who have a preferred name listed on their Dean's congratulatory letter may need to provide legal documentation to establish a relationship between the preferred name on the letter and the legal name on the immigration/VISA documents. If such documentation cannot be provided it is recommended that the student remove the preferred name using the Social Identities Tool (login required) .

Update your record as soon as possible. For questions regarding the Social Identities Tool or Preferred Names, please contact Registrar@ucsd.edu

Post-Completion Work Authorization

International students are no longer eligible for on-campus employment beyond the program end date listed on the I-20 or DS-2019. The program end date is based on your final term of study and will be automatically adjusted to the last day of your graduating term. PhD students that have paid the filing fee in lieu of graduation in their final term will have a program end date based on their date of defense.

Post-Completion Work Authorization:

F-1 students can apply for post-completion Optional Practical Training (OPT) in order to continue or begin work following graduation.

J-1 students can apply for post-completion Academic Training (AT) in order to continue or begin work following graduation. Students must be approved for AT before their program end date.

Health Insurance after Graduation

As an F-1 or J-1 student, you are strongly encouraged to have adequate health insurance during your stay in the U.S. More information, including a list of student health insurance providers, can be found on our Understanding Health Insurance page .

Maintaining health insurance after graduation:

If you will be continuing with OPT (F-1 students) or Academic Training (J-1 students) beyond the end of your UC SHIP coverage, contact your employer or a health insurance provider directly for information regarding their policies and rates.

You may potentially be eligible to enroll in the voluntary UC SHIP coverage for the quarter immediately following the quarter during which you were a registered student and completed your degree. Voluntary coverage is limited to one quarter.

Spring graduates only : If you are enrolled in the UC SHIP for spring quarter and complete your academic program in the spring quarter, you are eligible for continued coverage through the summer, up to the start of fall quarter.

Preparing for Graduation

Program Completion

SEVIS Transfer Out

UC San Diego Alumni