Financial Support

Transitional Graduate Student Employment Program

Transitional Graduate Student Employment Program

PLEASE BE ADVISED: The funding cap for the Transitional Graduate Student Employment Pilot Program at UC San Diego has been reached, and the program is no longer accepting applications.

The Transitional Graduate Student Employment Pilot Program provides a transitional employment position for eligible Graduate Student Researchers (GSRs) whose employment is funded by a Principal Investigator (PI)  and are represented by the United Auto Workers (UAW).The criteria for a transitional position are described below. The duration of the transitional employment is up to one quarter per selected student.

To be eligible for this program, applicants must meet the following criteria:

Be eligible for employment and in good employment standing, including conduct and performance;

Be dependent on their PI for employment;

Have been employed by their PI for at least three quarters (or the equivalent);

Have not previously received a transitional position;

Demonstrate an irreparable employment-related conflict in the supervisor-supervisee relationship beyond repair for reasons outside of their control, or their PI has left the University;

Have consulted with their program/department regarding options for transitional support and verified that the program/department is unable to provide a transitional position that meets the following requirements: Transitional position for a partial term (<1 quarter) that is at the same appointment percentage and salary rate as the existing appointment; or Transitional position for a full term (1 quarter) that is at the same appointment percentage as the previous appointment, with salary placement consistent with departmental appointment practices or consistent with the individual’s experience-based salary placement.

Transitional position for a partial term (<1 quarter) that is at the same appointment percentage and salary rate as the existing appointment; or

Transitional position for a full term (1 quarter) that is at the same appointment percentage as the previous appointment, with salary placement consistent with departmental appointment practices or consistent with the individual’s experience-based salary placement.

To determine eligibility, graduate student researchers should first consult with their program/department. If it is determined that the GSR is eligible, they may submit an application . After an application is submitted, the Division of Graduate Education and Postdoctoral Affairs (GEPA) will consult with the applicant’s home department/program to confirm eligibility for the program.

The UC San Diego Transitional Graduate Student Employment Pilot Program will provide funding for up to six positions for eligible students or up to the funding cap of $70,000, whichever comes first.

The allotted funds for this pilot program have now been exhausted and applications are no longer being accepted. If you have any questions or concerns, please reach out to: gepa-liaison@ucsd.edu .

Non Discrimination Statement : In accordance with applicable Federal and State law and University policy, the University of California does not discriminate, or grant preferences, on the basis of race, color, national origin, religion, sex, disability, and/or other protected categories. More information about Proposition 209 can be found here . More information about the University of California Anti-Discrimination Policy can be found here.

Support for Student Parents

Transitional Graduate Student Employment Program