Preparing to Graduate

Preparing to Graduate

Formatting your Dissertation/Thesis

The final version of the dissertation/thesis must conform to procedures outlined in the "Preparation and Submission Manual for Doctoral Dissertations and Master's Theses"

Attend a Formatting Webinar

The next Dissertation/Thesis Submission & Formatting Webinar is on Tuesday, July 14 at 10:00am (PT) Unable to attend the next Webinar? Click here to view the slide deck or a pre-recorded version .

The next Dissertation/Thesis Submission & Formatting Webinar is on Tuesday, July 14 at 10:00am (PT)

Unable to attend the next Webinar? Click here to view the slide deck or a pre-recorded version .

Dissertation/Thesis Appointments

Preliminary and final dissertation/thesis appointments are no longer required. Please see the Dissertation & Thesis Submission page for information on how to file for the degree.

Permission Letter Submission Form

Students must submit permission letters from all co-authors, if the dissertation/thesis will use material which has been submitted for publication or has been published. Letters must be submitted to GEPA via the online form.

Submit Letters Here

Students on track to fulfill all degree requirements should register for commencement ceremonies and order their cap and gown upon registration. Details about each ceremony can be found at the link below.

Non Discrimination Statement : In accordance with applicable Federal and State law and University policy, the University of California does not discriminate, or grant preferences, on the basis of race, color, national origin, religion, sex, disability, and/or other protected categories. More information about Proposition 209 can be found here . More information about the University of California Anti-Discrimination Policy can be found here.

Progress to Degree

Enrolling at UC San Diego

Preparing to Graduate Degree Completion Dissertation & Thesis Submission Dissertation & Thesis Manual Dissertation & Thesis Template

Degree Completion

Dissertation & Thesis Submission

Dissertation & Thesis Manual

Dissertation & Thesis Template

Policies & Procedures

Student Academic FAQ

Merkin Graduate Fellows Program

Degree Proposals