Travel Clearance

Travel Clearance

Serving Students

Your personalized travel package for a healthful and safe trip may include:

Advice on illness prevention, travel immunizations, prescriptions to prevent malaria, altitude sickness and traveler’s diarrhea, and a summary country specific report.

Travel visits are required to receive travel vaccines such as Typhoid, Yellow Fever or Japanese Encephalitis.

Scheduling Travel Visit

Call (858) 534-3300 to schedule Study Abroad health clearance or Personal Travel visits.

Schedule travel consult 6-8 weeks before departure and no more than 6 months in advance, as information may not be current by the time travel occurs.

Before Your Travel Visit Complete These Steps

Login to MyChart

Start the eCheck-in process

Complete the Travel Health Questionnaire at least 1 day before your appointment

Bring Immunization records Please bring a copy of ALL previous immunizations to the travel appointment. You can obtain your immunization records from your parents, pediatrician and/or high school. If you need additional immunizations or vaccinations, you can obtain those at the SHS Nurses' Clinic by appointment.

Please bring a copy of ALL previous immunizations to the travel appointment.

You can obtain your immunization records from your parents, pediatrician and/or high school.

If you need additional immunizations or vaccinations, you can obtain those at the SHS Nurses' Clinic by appointment.

Study Abroad Programs

Alternative Breaks (AB)

Global Exchange Program (GEP)

Global Seminars (GS)

UC Education Abroad Program (UCEAP)

Cost of Services

There is a charge for the consultation, in addition to charges for immunizations and medications . See the Cost of Services page for more information.

Clinic Hours and Locations

For clinic hours and locations, visit the Hours & Location website.

The Immunization Action Coalition

Travel Health Online (Shoreland)

US State Department: Smart Traveler Enrollment Program

Cost of Services

Clinical Laboratory

Gender-Affirming Care

Radiology (X-ray)

Reproductive Health

Travel Clearance Alternative Breaks Global Exchange Program Global Seminars UCEAP Travel

Alternative Breaks

Global Exchange Program