Painful Periods (Dysmenorrhea)

Painful Periods (Dysmenorrhea)

Dysmenorrhea is the medical term for pain associated with menstruation. The pain and cramping ranges in intensity, typically lasts a few days each month, and affects more than half of people with a uterus. Although some mild-to-moderate cramping during menstruation is normal, about 5-15% of people experience such severe pain that it interferes with their day-to-day life. Medication and other treatments can help with dysmenorrhea.

Along with cramping of varying intensity, people with dysmenorrhea can experience aching, throbbing pain in the abdomen, a pressure-like sensation in the abdomen, and pain in the hips, low back, and inner thighs, as well as nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, dizziness, fatigue, and headaches.

Anyone with a uterus can develop dysmenorrhea but the following factors may cause an increased risk for the condition:

People who smoke cigarettes

People whose first period occurred before age 12

People with heavy periods that last more than 7 days

People with a biological parent with dysmenorrhea

When to Seek Care

Painful periods don’t usually cause complications; however, they often adversely affect quality of life. Dysmenorrhea is evaluated by obtaining a medical history and performing a physical examination. Diagnostic tests such as ultrasound, MRI, hysteroscopy, and laparoscopy are sometimes used to determine if an underlying medical condition is the cause of dysmenorrhea.

Medications are often the initial step in treating painful periods. Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) such as ibuprofen or naproxen are used first because they reduce the prostaglandins made by the body and lessen their effects, ultimately making cramps less severe. NSAIDs are available over the counter, easy to use, and relatively inexpensive. Healthcare providers may also recommend hormonal contraceptives such as the pill, the patch, vaginal rings, Depo-Provera, intrauterine devices, or Nexplanon.

Other options for reducing pain from menstrual cramps include use of a heating pad or hot water bottle on the back or abdomen, getting extra rest, avoiding caffeinated foods and beverages, avoiding smoking or alcohol consumption, and exercising regularly. Yoga, acupuncture, relaxation or breathing exercises, eating anti-inflammatory foods, and taking vitamin supplements are complimentary therapies that may help.

American College of Obstetricians & Gynecologists – Dysmenorrhea: Painful Periods

Cleveland Clinic – Dysmenorrhea (Menstrual Cramps)

Johns Hopkins Medicine – Dysmenorrhea

Advance Directives

Alcohol and Other Drugs

Breast & Testicular Health

Conjunctivitis (Pink Eye)

Eating Disorders

Emergency Contraception

Gastroesophageal Reflux Disease (GERD)

Gynecologic Cancers (PDF)

Hepatitis A, B and C

Human Papillomavirus (HPV)

Medication Abortion

Methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA)

Molluscum Contagiosum

Painful Periods (Dysmenorrhea)

Pelvic Inflammatory Disease (PID)

Physical Activity

Plant Dermatitis

Polycystic Ovary Syndrome (PCOS)

Pregnancy Testing

Temporomandibular Joint Disorders (TMJ)

Urinary Tract Infections (UTIs)

Vaginal Infections