SHS Optometry is open to all registered UC San Diego students by appointment only for your routine and urgent eye care needs. The Optometry Department vision care team is dedicated to providing high quality eye care and products to best fit your lifestyle and visual needs. The optometrists are highly experienced in providing precise glasses and contact lens prescriptions as well as in evaluating, detecting, treating, and managing eye diseases which may include dry eyes and red eyes. The eyewear collection is passionately cultivated by our optical staff to ensure you receive the most stylish and functional glasses to help you look and feel your best.

The Student Health Optometry Department has been in operation since February 1975. Our mission is to facilitate the retention, academic advancement, and graduation of UC San Diego students by maintaining their maximum eye health. View information about our Optometrists .

Make an Appointment

SHS Optometry is open during regular clinic hours , except for extended hours on Monday, and closed on university holidays . Optometry will be closed for lunch from 11:45am to 12:45pm.

Schedule your comprehensive eye exam by logging onto MyStudentChart > Click on visits > Schedule an appointment > Choose Comprehensive Eye Exam

To place an order for glasses/contacts, call the Optometry Department at (858) 534-2602 . You may also walk-in during normal business hours to place your order. If you have questions, email us at SHS-Opto@health.ucsd.edu .

Urgent Medical Office Visit

Dry Eye Evaluation

Comprehensive Eye Exam

Contact Lens Evaluation

Ordering of contact lenses with a valid prescription

Ordering of glasses with a valid prescription

How Often Should I Get an Eye Exam?

How Often Does UC SHIP Cover an Eye Exam?

When Do UC SHIP Vision Benefits Expire?

Vision benefits included in UC SHIP expire on July 31st and renew on August 1st every calendar year. Benefits include but aren’t limited to:

$120 allowance towards frames OR contact lens supply

$10 for an eye exam

If you haven’t taken advantage of your vision benefits yet, do not let them go to waste! Call SHS Optometry at (858) 534-2602 to schedule an appointment for an eye exam or to order glasses/contacts.

Do You Offer Blue Light Protection?

What is Considered Urgent/Emergency Eye Care?

Urgent/emergency eye care is needed for situations that need immediate attention. Situations include:

An injury to the eye

Sudden loss or a reduction in vision

Sudden onset of double vision

Chemical(s) in the eye

Head injury that causes changes in vision

New onset of floaters

An increase in floaters

Foreign material stuck in the eye

Dislodged contact lens

If you are experiencing any of the above, contact us immediately at (858) 534-2602 to schedule a medical office visit. With UC SHIP, medical office visits are completely covered ($0 copay).

What if I Have Never Worn Contact Lenses, Can I Get a Prescription for Contact Lenses?

Cost of Services

Clinical Laboratory

Gender-Affirming Care

Optometry Cost of Exams and Products

Cost of Exams and Products

Radiology (X-ray)

Reproductive Health

Travel Clearance