Application Fee Questions

Application Fee Questions

What is UC San Diego's application fee?

Applicants may apply to multiple programs for the same term, but are required to pay a fee for each application. However, each application must be submitted to a different department. Please note the application fee is non-refundable.

US Citizens and Permanent Resident Applicants: $135.00

International Applicants: $155.00

The application fee is payable by major credit card: MasterCard, Visa, American Express, Discover, and JCB.

What is the application fee and fee waiver process for undocumented students?

The application fee for undocumented students is the same as US Citizens and Permanent Residents: $135.00.

When filling out your application, be sure to select your country of birth and "AP – Approved Petition" as your visa type.

How do I pay the application fee?

How can I apply for a waiver of the application fee?

Complete the "Personal Information" section of the application. The "Fee Waiver Request" section of the application is based on responses to citizenship/visa type. Information on eligibility can be found above.

Navigate to the “Fee Waiver Request” section of the application. This section is located in the beginning of the application if eligible.

Follow the instructions listed on the “Fee Waiver Request” section of the application. Once you have uploaded the required documentation your request will be reviewed by the Graduate Admissions Office.

Check your email . You will receive an email notifying you of your fee waiver status (Approved or Denied).

Please note all fee waiver requests must be submitted at least one week prior to the application deadline. Your application does not have to be fully submitted for your fee waiver to be processed.

How many fee waivers can I apply for?

How long do I have to submit an application fee waiver request?

All fee waiver requests must be submitted at least one week prior to the application deadline. Your application does not have to be fully submitted for your fee waiver to be considered and processed. Please refer to our program directory for program deadlines.

I have participated in a Graduate Preparation Program, which qualifies me for a fee waiver. How do I request a fee waiver?

Applicants who participated in certain Graduate Preparation Programs are eligible for an application fee waiver. A list of eligible graduate prep programs can be found on our website . Please follow the instructions listed on the "Fee Waiver Request" section of the application.

Non Discrimination Statement : In accordance with applicable Federal and State law and University policy, the University of California does not discriminate, or grant preferences, on the basis of race, color, national origin, religion, sex, disability, and/or other protected categories. More information about Proposition 209 can be found here . More information about the University of California Anti-Discrimination Policy can be found here.

General Application Questions

Application Fee Questions

Funding Questions

Test and Scores Questions

Letters of Recommendation Questions

Transcripts Questions

Gender Identity, Sexual Orientation, Ethnicity Questions

International Applicant Questions

Joint Doctoral Program (JDP) Applicant Questions

Undocumented Student Questions

Admitted Student Questions