Housing Guarantee
The undergraduate incoming Fall and Winter class (first-year and transfer students) are eligible for a two-year housing guarantee. Students must reside in on-campus housing for Fall or Winter Quarter of their admit year or they will automatically forfeit their two-year housing guarantee. For example a 2026-27 new incoming first-year student would need to reside in on-campus housing for Fall Quarter 2026.

Housing Guarantee Eligibility
To maintain eligibility* for the two-year housing guarantee, student must comply with the following:

Students must reside in on-campus housing for the entirety of their admit year.
Students must maintain their housing contract for the duration of the academic year or full 12-month contract (Pepper Canyon West only)
Compliance with all:
University-imposed deadlines
Incoming and Continuing student housing deadlines (including but not limited to: application, contract, payment, and enrollment to maintain housing eligibility)
Terms of the University housing contract
University policies
Students who do not have a housing guarantee can apply to the Housing Waitlist. Continuing students with a two-year guarantee are eligible to participate in Room Selection to apply for on-campus housing.

*Students who participate in University of California Education Abroad Programs (UCEAP), UC Washington Center (UCDC), Historically Black Colleges & Universities (HBCU) Exchange Program, late admission, admission deferment, or military leave maintain eligibility for the housing guarantee provided their guarantee has not expired. For example, a new incoming student for Fall 2025 received a two-year housing guarantee, their guarantee expires Spring 2027. The student is participating in a study abroad program for Spring 2027. They would not be guaranteed housing upon their return for Fall 2027 as their guarantee expired the end of Spring Quarter 2027 (Year 1: Fall 2025 to Spring 2026; Year 2: Fall 2026 to Spring 2027).

To check your current eligibility for a future housing contract, you can contact Housing Administrative Services at support.ucsd.edu, via email at housingcontracts@ucsd.edu or call 858.534.4010.

Non Discrimination Statement
In accordance with applicable Federal and State law and University policy, the University of California does not discriminate, or grant preferences, on the basis of race, color, national origin, religion, sex, disability, and/or other protected categories.

More information about Proposition 209 can be found here.

More information about the University of California Anti-Discrimination Policy can be found here.

Important Dates
In order to receive a housing offer and maintain the two-year housing guarantee, students must meet the admissions and housing deadlines. Admissions and housing deadlines are defined as follows:

Accept the offer of admission by the admissions deadline.
Set up your Active Directory (AD).
Activate your official ucsd.edu email. 
Submit the housing application by the housing application deadline.
The invite to apply for housing for those who completed steps 1-3.
The email invite will be sent to your personal email on file and your ucsd.edu email. After the initial invite, all email reminders will be sent to your ucsd.edu email account.
Sign the housing contract and submitting the $450 housing prepayment by the housing contract process deadline.
Move-in (pick up keys and check in) by first day of classes (unless approved for a late arrival).
For Incoming First-Year Students*:
Accept the Offer of Admission, set up your Active Directory (AD) and your ucsd.edu email by May 1, 2026 and apply for Housing in the Enrollment Checklist by June 7, 2026.  
Housing contract information will be emailed to your UC San Diego email address: By June 16, 2026
Signed Housing contract and $450 prepayment due date: June 29, 2026.
Optional opportunity to apply for a Living Learning Community or Gender Inclusive Housing due date: July 1, 2026.
Must have the signed housing contract by the deadline.
More information on our Living Learning Communities or Gender Inclusive Housing can be found here. 
Priority deadline for OSD approved housing accommodations: July 6, 2026
Submit any roommate requests and room type preferences: due by July 14, 2026
Room Assignment and Move-in information available: Mid-to-late August
Deadline to change Dining Plan: October 1, 2026
*Incoming first year students admitted from the Admissions Waitlist will receive updated dates for the housing deadlines.  Emails will be sent so please follow them to keep moving forward with the process and required deadlines.

For Incoming Transfer Students:
Accept the Offer of Admission, set up your Active Directory (AD) and your ucsd.edu email by June 1, 2026 and apply for Housing in the Enrollment Checklist by June 7, 2026.  
Housing contract information will be emailed to your UC San Diego email address: By June 16, 2026
Signed Housing contract and $450 prepayment due date: June 29, 2026.
Optional opportunity to apply for a Living Learning Community or Gender Inclusive Housing due date: July 1, 2026.
Must have the signed housing contract by the deadline.
More information on our Living Learning Communities or Gender Inclusive Housing can be found here. 
Priority deadline for OSD approved housing accommodations: July 6, 2026
Submit any roommate requests and room type preferences: due by July 14, 2026
Room Assignment and Move-in information available: Mid-to-late August
Deadline to change Dining Plan: October 1, 2026
For Continuing Students (Room Selection):
Continuing Student Housing Application & Contract Process*: February 18, 2026 to February 26, 2026
Continuing Student Deadlines & Dates
Room Selection Sign-Up (self-selection): April 2026
Room and Move-in information available: Information for Fall 2026 Move-In will start to be available in late April
Deadline to change Dining Plan: October 1, 2026
*Students with a housing guarantee for the 2026-27 academic year must submit  a continuing student housing application and complete their housing contract and $450 prepayment in order to select space.  A current resident with no housing guarantee must express interest in the opportunity to live on-campus for the 2026-27 academic year during the same application window. To ensure eligibility for the housing guarantee, you must meet all housing deadlines.

Room Selection information is available now!

Housing Application Process For Incoming Students
Students who have accepted their Offer of Admissions, activated their Single Sign On and activated their ucsd.edu email to UC San Diego may apply for housing in April. Please allow 48-72 hours after accepting the Offer of Admission, activating your Single Sign On and activating your ucsd.edu email to access the 2026-2027 Incoming Student Housing Application Process via the Housing Portal.

View your Enrollment Checklist for the next steps.
Students who accept their Offer of Admission, activate their Single Sign On and activate their ucsd.edu email will receive an email to start the Housing Application Process. 
All housing applications/forms/templates/contracts are available in the Housing Portal.
To ensure eligibility for the housing guarantee, you must meet all housing deadlines.
Housing Contract Process
Details about the Housing Contract Process can be found on the Housing Contract Process page.

Housing Contract