JYNNEOS is a vaccine developed to protect against Mpox and smallpox. It is given as a 2-dose vaccine with 4 weeks between doses and is administered in the back of the upper arm. Studies show that getting both recommended doses of the vaccine provides the best protection against Mpox and can lower risk up to 86-89%. JYNNEOS takes about 2 weeks from the second dose to have the most protection. People who are vaccinated should continue to avoid close, skin-to-skin contact with someone who has Mpox.

The California Department of Public Health (CDPH) recommends* the Mpox vaccine for any person who:

​Is a gay, bisexual, or other orientation man who has sex with men or

Is transgender, nonbinary, or gender-diverse or

Has HIV, or is taking/eligible for HIV PrEP or doxy PEP​ or

Was exposed to someone with Mpox in the last 14 days or

Is planning to travel to sub-Saharan Africa, the Middle East, or a country with a clade I Mpox outbreak and anticipates sexual or intimate contact while traveling or

Anticipates attending a commercial sex event or venue (like a sex club or bathhouse) or

Has a sex partner with any of the above risks or

Requests Mpox vaccination, even if they have not disclosed any risks listed above

In addition, the Mpox vaccine is recommended for anyone at occupational risk for exposure to Mpox​ (e.g., certain laboratory workers).

*These recommendations are intended to simplify risk assessment and increase vaccination coverage among groups at increased risk of exposure given current outbreak data. People should talk with their healthcare providers if they are unsure about their risk for Mpox.

Post-Exposure Vaccination

Getting the vaccine right after an exposure is recommended for those not already vaccinated. JYNNEOS can provide some protection if given within 14 days after exposure to someone with Mpox, before symptoms develop. The sooner the vaccine is administered, the more effective it may be.

JYNNEOS is not recommended for people with current Mpox infection or who had an Mpox infection before. Prior infection is likely protective against Mpox per the Centers for Disease Control (CDC).

There is no charge for vaccines given in Nurses’ Clinic for registered students with UC SHIP. Eligible fee-for-service patients will be charged a Nurses' Clinic visit fee in addition to the cost of the vaccines.

Refer to the Cost of Services page for all pricing.

Requesting Mpox Vaccination

To request consideration for Mpox vaccination, please login to MyStudentChart and choose Menu > Student Health Ask a Nurse to send a secure message directly to the SHS Nurses’ Clinic team.

California Department of Public Health – Mpox

California Department of Public Health – Mpox Vaccination

Centers for Disease Control – Mpox Vaccination