Welcome to UCSD!

Student Health Services (SHS) invites you to utilize our healthcare services for your various medical needs. Our facility is located in the center of campus, along Library Walk , across fro m the Price Center Plaza . All students paying registration fees have access to SHS. Our physicians, nurse practitioners, registered nurses, optometrists, pharmacists, and other health care professionals are committed to helping students maintain healthy lifestyles. Most of the medical services provided at SHS are available at no - or low- cost for student s with UC SHIP or RAFT . Remember us when you need medical care, and best wishes for a healthy academic year.

-- Stacie J. San Miguel, M.D., Director of Medical Services

SHS provides primary medical care, including urgent care and support services such as laboratory, pharmacy, optometry, social work, and x-ray to undergraduate, graduate , and professional students. Our focus is to provide integrated clinical services to address the medical needs of individual students, as well as to foster the well-being of students as a whole person. In addition, SHS oversees the public health needs of the campus community.

SHS has been accredited by the Accreditation Association for Ambulatory Health Care (AAAHC) since 1995 . Pursuing and maintaining accreditation distinguishes our healthcare services by our adherence to rigorous, nationally recognized standards of care and safety, and acknowledges that we are providing the highest quality of care to our students. SHS is fully committed to self-examination, peer review, and quality control through the utilization of data, outcome, and patient experience measurements.

Read about how your medical information may be used and disclosed and how you can get access to this information at the HIPAA Guidelines link.

Our Mission Statement

The UC San Diego Student Health Services' mission is to facilitate each student's personal wellness and academic success through compassionate, inclusive, preventive, and evidence-based care.

Provide accessible and timely primary care that is personalized, confidential, cost effective and meets the high standards of the Accreditation Association for Ambulatory Health Care.

Educate our students, emphasizing health promotion, healthy lifestyles, and lifelong disease prevention.

Assist the campus community in providing a healthy, supportive environment for students to pursue personal wellness.

In accordance with applicable Federal and State law and University policy, the University of California does not discriminate, or grant preferences, on the basis of race, color, national origin, religion, sex, disability, and/or other protected categories.

Review Proposition 209 .

Learn more about the University of California Anti-Discrimination Policy .

Student Health Services

About Health Alerts Well-Being & Prevention Notice of Privacy Practices Medical Teams Contact

Well-Being & Prevention

Notice of Privacy Practices

MyStudentChart Login