Living On Campus

Additional Housing

Additional Housing Options

We have several optional housing communities for students who complete the 2026 Room Selection housing contract (including submitting the $450 prepayment) for the 2026-27 academic year. Community descriptions may be found below. Continuing students will have the opportunity to apply for a Living-Learning Community or opt into Gender Inclusive Housing after we process the $450 prepayment as part of the housing contract process.  All applications or optional housing information are accessible via the Housing Portal. Continuing students accepted into these communities will receive further instructions at a later date.

Applying for a Living-Learning Community or Gender Inclusive Housing does not secure you a single room nor does it guarantee you a space within the LLC.

Living-Learning Communities Webinar For Room Selection

If you are interested in knowing more about our Living-Learning Communities (LLCs), you are invited to review our upcoming webinar PDF link which will be posted by February 20, 2026. This is for current residents participating in Room Selection.

View Slides: Living Learning Communities (pdf)

The Living-Learning Communities and Gender Inclusive Housing

Eligibility To Apply: Must have completed the 2026 Room Selection housing contract in full (including $450 prepayment).

Application Dates: February 19 - March 3

UC San Diego is committed to creating more spaces where our diverse population of undergraduate students can connect with each other, with the university and with others within the community. Our Living-Learning Communities (LLCs) have been developed to strengthen learning by helping residents to connect academically and socially. The LLCs are each characterized by housing within the same residence location, shared co-curricular experiences, access to resources, and engaging in activities that reinforce common affinities such as aspects of culture.

Applying or being accepted into a Living-Learning Community does not guarantee you a single room.

LGBTQIA+ Living-Learning Community (LGBTQIA+LLC)

Housed at Muir College

The LGBTQIA+ Living Learning Community (LLC) is housed in the Tuolumne Apartments in the Muir residential complex and may also be housed in the Tioga Residence Hall at Muir. The LGBTQIA+ LLC is open to all eligible students. The LGBTQIA+ LLC does not consider race, color, national origin, religion, sex, disability, and/or other protected categories as part of the application and selection process. This living and learning community has brought together a variety of residents into a vibrant living environment for the past couple of years. Residents who are part of this dynamic program participate in a variety of activities and programs that cater to the LGBTQIA + community. Residents who reside in the LLC have the opportunity to be part of an advisory council that provides direction and feedback about the activities and programs that are offered to members of the LLC. Collectively, this is a community and a cohesive program that provides a comfortable living environment for its participants. Members of the LLC are given the opportunity to explore themselves and a variety of LGBTQIA + topics.

Multi-Cultural Living-Learning Community (MCLLC)

Housed in Sixth College at North Torrey Pines Living Learning Neighborhood

This program will provide a space in the apartments in Sixth College at North Torrey Pines Living Learning Neighborhood for current continuing UC San Diego students from all 8 Colleges to live, gather, learn from one another, and build a strong community. Residents in this community are committed to developing and participating in educational and social opportunities for this multicultural community and others interested in multiculturalism and social justice.

Established in 2010, the Multi-Cultural Living and Learning Community (MCLLC) is meant to support students interested in promoting diversity and social justice at Sixth, UCSD, and in the surrounding community. The MCLLC is open to all eligible students. The MCLLC does not consider race, color, national origin, religion, sex, disability, and/or other protected categories as part of the application and selection process. The MCLLC has provided opportunities for residents to work with Student Promoted Access Center for Education and Services (SPACES) and has collaborated with UCSD’s Cultural Centers to coordinate and promote programs focused on student activism. We hope to see this program grow with your participation and support.

African Black Diaspora Living-Learning Community (ABDLLC - Black Housing)

Housed in Sixth College at North Torrey Pines Living Learning Neighborhood

UC San Diego recognizes the unique challenges and needs of the African Black Diaspora identities at institutions of higher education. The ABDLLC is open to all eligible students. The ABDLLC does not consider race, color, national origin, religion, sex, disability, and/or other protected categories as part of the application and selection process. The mission of the ABDLLC (Black Housing) is to establish an environment of personal and academic excellence through the affirmation and celebration of Blackness in its various expressions. Led by the principles of Ujima (collective work and responsibility), Kujichagulia (self-determination), and Nia (purpose), the ABDLLC (Black Housing) will function as cooperative community with the following shared goals:

Cultivating personal development and self-awareness

Fostering meaningful interpersonal connections and lifelong relationships

Validating the space of the individual, while also enabling diverse collaboration

Advocating for the empowerment of Black students across our campus and working to ensure equity, inclusion, and respect

Enriching the UCSD community with distinct African and Black culture

The ABDLLC (Black Housing) aspires to be a platform that African Black Diaspora students and their allies can use to exhibit their authenticity and agency while engaging with Blackness and its full range of humanities, necessities, and potentials.

Raza Living-Learning Community (RLLC)

Housed at Eleanor Roosevelt College

The Raza Living-Learning Community (RLLC) will provide a space in the Eleanor Roosevelt College neighborhood for new and continuing UCSD students from all six colleges to live and contribute to a vibrant community. The Raza LLC is open to all eligible students. The Raza LLC does not consider race, color, national origin, religion, sex, disability, and/or other protected categories as part of the application and selection process. New freshmen in the program will be housed in the residence halls and continuing and transfer students in the program will be housed within the International House complex. Residents in this community are committed to developing their understanding of and greater appreciation for the Chican@/x and Latin@/x experience in the United States and the histories and cultures of Latin America. The community’s programmatic objectives of community-building, mentorship, and education are enhanced by opportunities to partner with International House, Raza Resource Centro and the campus student organizations for an exciting calendar of formal and informal collaborations throughout the year.

Warren Transfer LLC

Housed at Warren College

A dedicated Living Learning Community (LLC) where Warren Transfer students are able to live and learn together in the same community within their home College. The Warren Transfer LLC is open to all eligible students. The Warren Transfer LLC does not consider race, color, national origin, religion, sex, disability, and/or other protected categories as part of the application and selection process. Transfer students will get the opportunity to live with one another, take cohort classes, and build a community. Transfer LLC residents will occupy the 3rd through 6th floors of Brown Hall, a 100-bed residential building comprised entirely of apartment-style single rooms with communal lounge spaces. The community will be comprised of 51 Warren Transfer students plus one RA who ideally is also a transfer student.  More information can be found here: https://warren.ucsd.edu/res-life/Transfer-LLC.html

Housed at Eleanor Roosevelt College

Eligibility To Apply: Must have completed the 2025 Room Selection housing contract in full (including $450 prepayment).

Application Dates: February 19 - March 3

The I-House application will be available to those continuing students who submitted a Continuing Student Housing Application and signed a 2026 Room Selection housing contract including the $450 prepayment. Applications for I-House will be reviewed and students notified via email of their acceptance.

I-House is open to all eligible students. I-House does not consider race, color, national origin, religion, sex, disability, and/or other protected categories as part of the application and selection process.

Gender Inclusive Housing

Eligibility To Apply: Must have completed the 2026 Room Selection housing contract in full (including $450 prepayment). Available at the following housing communities: Eighth College, Revelle College, Muir College, Sixth College, ERC, Seventh College, Warren College and Upper Division Housing Communities.  Thurgood Marshall College (TMC) has a different program.

Application Dates: February 19 - March 3

Housing*Dining*Hospitality is inclusive of all members of UC San Diego's community, including our transgender, non-binary, genderqueer, gender non-conforming and intersex students.  We want to ensure all genders, gender identities and gender expressions are included in our housing, dining and hospitality effort.  To support all members for our community, students who complete the 2026 Room Selection housing contract will have the option of selecting into Gender Inclusive Housing during Room Selection.  Students who opt in by the stated due date will be able to self-select into available spaces designated by their Room Selection Community. There will be a number of available room types based on the designated Room Selection Community. GIH is open to all eligible students. GIH does not consider race, color, national origin, religion, sex, disability, and/or other protected categories as part of the process.

Students who opt into Gender Inclusive Housing understand that gender will be not be a factor in assigning students within bedrooms, suites or apartments. Keep in mind that participating in Gender Inclusive Housing does not guarantee you a single room.

Check back for updates soon!

Thurgood Marshall College (TMC) - All Gendered Housing

All Gendered Housing Program: Starting with eligible Thurgood Marshall (TMC) continuing students participating in the 2026 Room Selection process, TMC has chosen to change the housing assignment process to default to an “all gender ed housing” model where assignments are selected/ made irrespective of gender, with the option to choose gendered housing if that is what students prefer, thus de-centering binary gender structures in the newly built Marshall College housing at the Ridge Walk Living Learning Neighborhood.  Please stay tuned for upcoming documentation as well as TMC's information to be relayed to those eligible for Room Selection. All-Gendered Housing is open to all eligible students. All-Gendered Housing does not consider race, color, national origin, religion, sex, disability, and/or other protected categories as part of the process.

Check back for updates and additional information to help those students through the process!

Deadlines & Details

Additional Housing

Application Process

Contracts & Prepayments

Housing Neighborhood Previews