Scholarships for Entering Transfer Students

Entering Transfer Students

The scholarships listed on this page are available to eligible new entering transfer students.

Transfer applicants are automatically considered for these scholarships if they file the UC Application by the November 30 deadline and are offered admission to UC San Diego the following spring.

UC San Diego will typically notify scholarship recipients by May 1. Check your awards status online using the Applicant Portal .

Chancellor's Associates Scholarship

Admitted transfer students from community colleges within San Diego County may be considered for a two-year scholarship of up to $20,000 (up to $10,000 per year). Eligible students must be California residents, have a total family income below $80,000, demonstrate financial need, eligibility for institutional need-based grants and submit the FAFSA or CADAA by the March 2 deadline. Additional factors may also include, but not limited to, first-generation college status, being an orphan or ward of the court, parenting dependent children, re-entry status, or service as a U.S. Armed Forces veteran.

Chancellor's Associates Scholarship: Enrolled Members of Federally Recognized Tribes

Eligibility: Entering transfer students who are enrolled members of federally recognized tribes, admitted to UC San Diego.

Submit a Federal Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) or CA Dream Act Application

Considered a California Resident for Tuition Purposes

Documentation that will be requested to verify status Certification of tribal enrollment on tribal letterhead OR Enrollment/membership card that contains the tribal seal and/or signature of a tribal leader OR Certificate of Degree of Indian Blood (CDIB) if the CDIB includes tribal enrollment information OR Tribal identification card with enrollment number

Certification of tribal enrollment on tribal letterhead OR

Enrollment/membership card that contains the tribal seal and/or signature of a tribal leader OR

Certificate of Degree of Indian Blood (CDIB) if the CDIB includes tribal enrollment information OR

Tribal identification card with enrollment number

Award amount and term: A 2-year award up to $20,000, paid at up to $10,000 per year.

Crankstart Scholarships for California Community College Transfer Students

Enter from a California Community College

Have high financial need

Have overcome challenges/hardships

Are committed to obtaining their degree

Award amount and term: Up to $5,000 annually for 2 undergraduate years at UC San Diego, provided students maintain satisfactory progress toward a degree.

Engelhorn Family Scholarships

Participate in the UniversityLink

Have high financial need

Award amount and term: Up to $2,000 annually for 2 undergraduate years at UC San Diego.

Other: Preference given to first-generation college students.

Osher Foundation Scholarships

Enter from a California Community College

Have high financial need

Are student parents

Award amount and term: Up to $2,500 annually for 2 undergraduate years at UC San Diego, additionally a few one year awards may be available.

In addition to the UC San Diego scholarship above, entering transfer students may also qualify for these non-UC San Diego scholarship programs:

Outside Agency Scholarships

National Competitive Scholarships

Hope Scholars Program for former foster youth

Remember that all scholarships are awarded on a very competitive basis.

Entering First-Year Students

Entering Transfer Students

Chancellor's Scholarships for Entering First-Year

Regents Scholarships for Entering Freshmen

Continuing Undergraduate Students

Receiving Scholarship Funds from Non-UC San Diego Organizations

Middle Class Scholarship

Outside Agency Scholarships