Mumps is a highly contagious disease caused by a virus for which there is no specific treatment or cure. Mumps is spread from person to person through direct contact with infected saliva through sharing of cups/eating utensils or through respiratory droplets when the infected person sneezes, coughs, or talks. Mumps can also be spread when playing sports, dancing, kissing, or participating in close-contact activities.

Although once quite prevalent, mumps cases in the United States (US) declined more than 99% after the mumps vaccination program began in 1967 ( CDC, 2024 ). Despite vaccination efforts, mumps outbreaks still occur, particularly in settings where people have intense or frequent, prolonged close contact such as college campuses, schools, close-knit communities, and correctional facilities ( CDC, 2024 ). People with mumps are contagious 2 days before symptoms begin and 5 days after they start. As a result, mumps can be brought into the US by people who travel internationally to countries where the disease is more prevalent.

Common symptoms include:

Loss of appetite

Painful swelling of the jaw

Symptoms of mumps usually begin 7-25 days after infection with the virus. Typically, the initial symptoms of mumps (fatigue, fever, headache, loss of appetite, and muscle aches) present a few days before the jaw pain and swelling begins. This painful swelling of the parotid (salivary) glands, known as parotitis, may occur on one or both sides of the face and can result in a chipmunk cheek-like appearance since these glands are located between the ears and the jaw. While parotitis occurs in >70% of mumps cases, other viruses and bacteria can also cause this infection ( Cleveland Clinic, 2022 ). Most people with mumps recover within about 2 weeks.

People who are unvaccinated are much more likely to develop the disease, as are those who travel internationally to countries where mumps is common. Additionally, school-aged children, students at post-high school educational institutions, and healthcare personnel have a higher likelihood of spreading mumps because of constant close contact with others.

Mumps is usually a mild illness but, in rare instances, can cause serious complications, some of which are known to occur more often in adults. Complications can include:

Arthritis – inflammation in the joints

Deafness – permanent or temporary loss of hearing Encephalitis – inflammation of the brainEncephalitis may lead to death or permanent disability.

Encephalitis – inflammation of the brainEncephalitis may lead to death or permanent disability.

Mastitis – inflammation in the breast tissue

Meningitis – inflammation of the tissue covering the brain and spinal cord

Oophoritis – inflammation of the ovaries Orchitis – inflammation of the testiclesOrchitis may lead to a decrease in testicular size and could lead to temporary sterility or decreased fertility in patients with testes.

Orchitis – inflammation of the testiclesOrchitis may lead to a decrease in testicular size and could lead to temporary sterility or decreased fertility in patients with testes.

Pancreatitis – inflammation of the pancreas

Thyroiditis – inflammation of the thyroid gland

When to Seek Care

Anyone with known or suspected exposure to mumps should monitor for symptoms and notify their medical provider. People with symptoms of mumps should contact their medical provider immediately to make arrangements for evaluation. It is important for people diagnosed with mumps to isolate, monitor symptoms closely, and get clearance from their healthcare provider before returning to normal activity. Patients with mumps who have worsening or severe symptoms such as high fever, neck stiffness, severe headache, confusion, stomach pain, vomiting, or seizure activity should seek emergency medical evaluation or call 911.

There is no specific treatment for mumps. Instead, the focus is on symptom management and monitoring for worsening symptoms and complications. It is important to get plenty of rest, drink lots of fluids, and use over the counter (OTC) medications such as acetaminophen (Tylenol) or ibuprofen (Motrin) for fever, headaches, and pain. Gargling with warm salt water can be useful to relieve a sore throat. Choosing soft, easy-to-chew food and avoiding acidic foods that make the mouth water may lessen the jaw pain associated with eating. Applying ice or heat packs to swollen glands can also be useful to reduce jaw pain and swelling.

The best way to protect against mumps is with the measles, mumps, and rubella (MMR) vaccine. To be fully protected against mumps, two doses of the vaccine is necessary as receiving only one dose is less effective at preventing illness. While not impossible, it is far less likely a person will get mumps once fully vaccinated with two doses of MMR. Contact SHS for questions about getting vaccinated or to request a mumps antibody titer (blood test) to check mumps immunity.

About Mumps – Center for Disease Control

Mumps – Cleveland Clinic

If you are currently sick or injured and need medical advice, call (858) 534-3300 to speak with a registered nurse who can provide guidance. This service is available 24/7 to all students at no cost. You may also message the nursing team during regular hours via MyStudentChart: Menu > Student Health Ask-a-Nurse.

Advance Directives

Alcohol and Other Drugs

Breast & Testicular Health

Conjunctivitis (Pink Eye)

Eating Disorders

Emergency Contraception

Gastroesophageal Reflux Disease (GERD)

Gynecologic Cancers (PDF)

Hepatitis A, B and C

Human Papillomavirus (HPV)

Medication Abortion

Methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA)

Molluscum Contagiosum

Painful Periods (Dysmenorrhea)

Pelvic Inflammatory Disease (PID)

Physical Activity

Plant Dermatitis

Polycystic Ovary Syndrome (PCOS)

Pregnancy Testing

Temporomandibular Joint Disorders (TMJ)

Urinary Tract Infections (UTIs)

Vaginal Infections