Student Services

Working in the U.S.

F-1 Optional Practical Training (OPT)

Frequently Asked Questions

Frequently Asked Questions: Initial OPT and STEM OPT

Find answers to the most frequently asked Initial OPT and STEM OPT Extension questions. Please Contact Us if your OPT question remains unanswered.

Do I need a job to apply for Initial OPT?

A job offer is not required when you apply for Initial OPT. However, you must find employment within 90 days of the OPT start date on your EAD card, which you receive in the mail if your OPT application is approved by USCIS. Once you do get a job, it must be directly related to your major field of study.

The employment can be full time or part time (no less than 20 hours per week) and it can be paid or unpaid. You can have multiple employers at one time (a total of at least 20 combined hours per week). View our How to Find Internationally Friendly Employers page for resources to help you find a job for OPT.

How do I find a job or internship?

Visit the UC San Diego Career Center for career advising and additional resources on how to find a job or internship in the U.S.. Attend Career Fairs and Events hosted by the Career Center for opportunities to connect with professionals in your field. Visit our How to Find Internationally Friendly Employers website for insight into other resources, including data maps that display which employers have hired international students in past years.

I am in a BS/MS program. Can I apply for OPT after my BS program?

Yes! If you are continuing at UC San Diego to pursue a higher degree level, you will need to apply for a Change of Level I-20 . However, you do have the option to apply for OPT based on your completed Bachelors degree and to work on OPT until your Masters program begins. Even if you will only be working on OPT for 3 months, you can still request the full 12 months.

If you are pursuing a higher degree at another institution in the U.S. after completing a degree at UC San Diego, you can still apply for OPT based on completing your UC San Diego degree. You will then need to Transfer Out by requesting a release of your SEVIS record to the new school before your new program begins. When your SEVIS record has been transferred/released, your OPT will be automatically completed.

Can I change my OPT start date?

Will USCIS give me my requested start date and a full 12 months of Initial OPT?

I missed my 30-day window for USCIS submission. What should I do?

USCIS must receive your OPT I-20 within the 30-day window from the date the OPT I-20 was issued. If you received an OPT I-20 from ISEO and did not submit your OPT application to USCIS within 30 days, then you must request a Invalid OPT I-20 Replacement Request in iServices to restart the 30-day window.

Your OPT application must be submitted to USCIS before your 60-day grace period ends. If your grace period has ended, please contact an ISEO advisor .

STEM OPT Extension

When can I apply for STEM OPT?

Is my major eligible for the STEM OPT extension?

You must have earned a degree in a qualifying STEM field. On the first page of your I-20 (towards the middle), your major is listed. Next to the major is a series of numbers, called the CIP code. The major or program listed in TritonLink may differ from the one shown on your Form I-20. The major on your Form I-20 is based on a CIP (Classification of Instructional Programs) code—a standardized system created by the U.S. government that all universities use to align their majors. Each CIP code corresponds to a specific UC San Diego major or program. You can r eview the list of UCSD majors and their equivalent CIP codes here . If your CIP code is listed on the STEM Designated Degree Program List , then your major is eligible for the STEM OPT Extension. A double major with at least one STEM eligible major would be eligible for the STEM OPT extension. STEM minors are not eligible for the STEM OPT extension.

On the first page of your I-20 (towards the middle), your major is listed. Next to the major is a series of numbers, called the CIP code.

The major or program listed in TritonLink may differ from the one shown on your Form I-20. The major on your Form I-20 is based on a CIP (Classification of Instructional Programs) code—a standardized system created by the U.S. government that all universities use to align their majors. Each CIP code corresponds to a specific UC San Diego major or program. You can r eview the list of UCSD majors and their equivalent CIP codes here .

If your CIP code is listed on the STEM Designated Degree Program List , then your major is eligible for the STEM OPT Extension.

A double major with at least one STEM eligible major would be eligible for the STEM OPT extension. STEM minors are not eligible for the STEM OPT extension.

My STEM OPT is pending and my visa is expired. Can I travel?

Students on OPT or STEM OPT are advised to plan carefully before leaving the U.S. and to contact the U.S. Consulate in their home country regarding visa renewal processes.

Guidance for students whose OPT EAD card has expired and whose STEM OPT extension is pending and has filed a timely I-765 for STEM OPT extension, and therefore whose EAD card is automatically extended for 180 days, may apply for a new visa. Students should be prepared to present their STEM OPT I-20 and proof that the I-765 petition was filed in a timely manner in the form of their original I-797C receipt. As noted in the Federal Guidance: U.S. Department of State foreign Affairs Manual 9 FAM 402.5-5(N)(6)(e):

"As the STEM OPT extension is automatic for the first 180 days following regular post-completion OPT (when the student has properly filed Form I-765), the student may not necessarily have a renewed EAD. Therefore, any students having automatically authorized employment through the OPT extension may not be able to present a valid EAD when they apply to renew their visa. However, F-1 students in this situation can request an updated I-20 from the DSO, annotated for the STEM OPT extension, as well as proof that the I-765 petition was filed in a timely manner.  You must confirm that the student's electronic SEVIS record contains the same information as the updated hard copy Form I-20 before issuing a visa."

Does ISEO have to process my validation report by the due date listed in my SEVP Portal?

No. Your reporting requirement while on STEM OPT is that you submit your Validation Reports to the school by the relevant due dates listed in your SEVP Portal. The school does not have to process your reports by these due dates. The due dates are your deadlines to submit the Validation Reports to the school. If you have submitted your Validation Reports, via the "STEM OPT Validation Request" in iServices , by the due dates posted in your SEVP Portal, then you have met your validation reporting requirement for STEM OPT.

Please note that you may continue to receive notifications from your SEVP Portal, reminding you to submit your Validation Report, even after you have submitted the report to the school. This is normal. These notifications will cease once ISEO has reported your validation on your SEVIS record.

What happens if I miss the deadline for one of my validation reports?

Do I need to submit the validation reports that are due after I have ended my STEM OPT?

Form I-983 Questions

How do I fill out the I-983?

Use our I-983 Guide . Looking for DSO contact information? Find it on page 2 of the guide.

Form I-983 is a formal training plan that must clearly articulate the STEM OPT student's learning objectives. There are three main sections to the I-983. 1. The Training Plan (pages 1-4):

When do I submit the I-983 Training Plan? At the time of applying for the STEM OPT Extension to USCIS If you begin employment with a new employer during your STEM OPT period If you experience any changes in your current employment during your STEM OPT period that would change the information you originally stated in your I-983 Training Plan for that employer (e.g. job duties, salary, number of hours, Supervisor, etc.).

At the time of applying for the STEM OPT Extension to USCIS

If you begin employment with a new employer during your STEM OPT period

If you experience any changes in your current employment during your STEM OPT period that would change the information you originally stated in your I-983 Training Plan for that employer (e.g. job duties, salary, number of hours, Supervisor, etc.).

How do I submit the I-983 Training Plan? Follow the instructions on the STEM OPT page .

Follow the instructions on the STEM OPT page .

2. The “Evaluation on Student Progress” (top half of page 5):

When do I submit the I-983 Evaluation on Student Progress? Submit the Self-Evaluation at 12 months (1 year) after the STEM OPT start date . This is only submitted once during the entire STEM OPT Extension period. You would complete this section for whatever employer(s) you are working for at the time. If you are between jobs at 12 months after your STEM OPT start date, then you would complete this evaluation for your most recent employer.

Submit the Self-Evaluation at 12 months (1 year) after the STEM OPT start date .

This is only submitted once during the entire STEM OPT Extension period.

You would complete this section for whatever employer(s) you are working for at the time.

If you are between jobs at 12 months after your STEM OPT start date, then you would complete this evaluation for your most recent employer.

How do I submit the I-983 Self-Evaluation? Submit your I-983 with the Self-Evaluation in the “STEM OPT Validation Request” on iServices .

Submit your I-983 with the Self-Evaluation in the “STEM OPT Validation Request” on iServices .

3.The “Final Evaluation” (bottom half of page 5):

When do I submit the I-983 Final Evaluation? When you end employment during your STEM OPT Extension When you end your STEM OPT Extension This could be due to reaching your STEM OPT end date or could be if you end your STEM OPT early due to changing status or departing the U.S.

When you end employment during your STEM OPT Extension

When you end your STEM OPT Extension This could be due to reaching your STEM OPT end date or could be if you end your STEM OPT early due to changing status or departing the U.S.

This could be due to reaching your STEM OPT end date or could be if you end your STEM OPT early due to changing status or departing the U.S.

How do I submit the I-983 Final Evaluation? Follow the instructions on the STEM OPT page or the Completing/Ending OPT page .

Follow the instructions on the STEM OPT page or the Completing/Ending OPT page .

Maintaining Status on OPT

I cannot access or edit information in SEVP Portal. What should I do?

SEVP Portal Assistance Request:

Issues with accessing SEVP Portal: Students are required to self-report their employment in SEVP Portal during their Initial OPT year. If you are having issues, please review the instructions below.

When to submit the SEVP Portal Assistance Request:

If you never received an email from SEVP Portal. Students will receive an email from do-not-reply.SEVP@ice.dhs.gov on or after their OPT start date. First check your spam or junk email folder.

If your SEVP Portal link has expired.

If you are locked out of your SEVP Portal.

If you want to change your email associated with SEVIS.

Issues with Reporting your Employment in SEVP Portal: Students are required to self-report their employment in SEVP Portal during their Initial OPT year. If you are having issues, please review the instructions below.

Reporting BEYOND 10 Days of Employment Start Date: If you are reporting employment in the SEVP Portal and the employment start date is more than 10 days in the past, the system will not allow it. In order to correct this, log into SEVP Portal and input today or tomorrow as the start date. In addition, you must also submit the SEVP Portal Assistance Request in iServices and ISEO will correct the date for you. NOTE: It may take up to 3 business days for the information to reflect in SEVP Portal after ISEO completes your SEVP Portal Assistance Request . Please do not another request unless it has been more than 3 business days since ISEO has completed your SEVP Portal Assistance Request.

NOTE: It may take up to 3 business days for the information to reflect in SEVP Portal after ISEO completes your SEVP Portal Assistance Request . Please do not another request unless it has been more than 3 business days since ISEO has completed your SEVP Portal Assistance Request.

Help with SEVP Portal:

If you never received an SEVP Portal email, your link expired, you need to change the email address associated with SEVP Portal, or your employment start date is more than 10 days ago and SEVP Portal will not let you update it, submit the request below.

Submit an SEVP Portal Assistance Request in iServices :

Find the Working in the U.S. category in the left menu. Select Initial OPT Requests . Choose the SEVP Portal Assistance Request option.

Select Initial OPT Requests .

Choose the SEVP Portal Assistance Request option.

Prepare a PDF copy of your EAD card.

ISEO has an average processing time of 10 business days . You will be notified via email when your request is complete.

Can I enroll in classes while on OPT/STEM OPT?

Students on post-completion OPT/STEM OPT are not allowed to pursue a full course of study with a degree or certificate objective. Gaining admission to another school in the U.S. or enrolling full-time will end the OPT period because your SEVIS record will be transferred to the new school .

However, students can enroll in classes that are incidental to status (i.e. one or two classes) as long as their primary purpose in the U.S. continues to be full-time employment.

Am I still covered by UCSD Student Health Insurance during the OPT period?

As an F-1 student, you are strongly encouraged to have adequate health insurance during your stay in the U.S. If you will be continuing with OPT beyond the end of your UC SHIP coverage, please contact your employer or a health insurance provider directly for information regarding their policies and rates.

Spring graduates only : If you are enrolled in the UC SHIP for spring quarter and complete your academic program in the spring quarter, you are eligible for continued coverage through the summer, up to the start of fall quarter.

Do I need to file U.S. taxes in April?

Students in F-1 status are exempt from Social Security tax (FICA), however they are generally subject to federal and state income taxes. Tax forms are available from February through April of each year. Check the Internal Revenue Service website at irs.gov for federal tax information and the CA Franchise Tax Board at ftb.ca.gov for California tax information.

How can I end my OPT/STEM OPT early if I decide to change status or leave the U.S.?

If you are changing your immigration status or departing the U.S. before your OPT EAD card expires and will not return to use your OPT, submit the request below. Note: You cannot submit these changes through your SEVP Portal account.

Submit a Ending F-1 Visa Status Request in iServices :

Find the Ending your F-1 Visa Status at UC San Diego category in the left menu. Choose the Ending F-1 Visa Status Request option.

Choose the Ending F-1 Visa Status Request option.

Prepare a PDF copy of: Departure itinerary (for students departing the U.S.) Proof of adjusted visa status (for students adjusting visa status)

Departure itinerary (for students departing the U.S.)

Proof of adjusted visa status (for students adjusting visa status)

If you are ending STEM OPT early for any reason: Prepare a PDF copy of your I-983 (p.1-5) including the Final Evaluation section on page 5.

Prepare a PDF copy of your I-983 (p.1-5) including the Final Evaluation section on page 5.

You will receive a confirmation email when your request has been successfully submitted.

ISEO has an average processing time of 10 business days . You will be notified via email when your request is complete.

What is an unemployment day?

I am applying for Permanent Residency. How will OPT impact me?

USCIS Processing and Other Issues

How long does it take for USCIS to process my OPT/STEM OPT application?

Can I stay in the U.S. while my OPT/STEM OPT application is pending?

My OPT application was denied. What should I do?

There is an error on my EAD Card. What should I do?

Reference the Employment Authorization Document webpage on the USCIS website regarding applying for a Replacement EAD Card.

As of April 30, 2018 it is required that all Replacement EAD Cards be received in-person. You have the following options:

Receive in-person at the address listed on your I-765 form (question #3).

Arrange in-person pick up at the nearest post office by going to the USPS website, creating a USPS Informed Delivery Account, and selecting “hold for pickup.”

Designate a “c/o” individual and address on your I-765 form (question #3) and have this designated individual receive your EAD Card in person.

Without the “c/o,” designate an individual to receive your EAD Card (and all other mail) by completing the Postal Service’s PS Form 3801, Standing Delivery Order (PDF) or PS Form 3801-A, Agreement by a Hotel, Apartment House, or the Like (PDF) . You must submit the form to USPS before your EAD Card is mailed.

Note that all options require individuals to present two types of ID (e.g. Passport, Driver’s License, School ID Card, etc.).

I did not receive my EAD card. What should I do?

If you do not receive your EAD Card in 90 days, follow these steps:

Submit the USCIS e-request for "Outside Normal Processing Time" on the USCIS website. As the applicant, you are also able to contact the USCIS Customer Service Center using the phone number on your Receipt Notice.

I f your EAD Card was lost,  you need to apply for the Replacement EAD Card . Please reference the Employment Authorization Document webpage on the USCIS website. If the mailing error was not a USCIS error, you will need to pay the filing fee again.

As of April 30, 2018 it is required that all Replacement EAD Cards be received in-person. You have the following options: Receive in-person at the address listed on your I-765 form (question #3). Arrange in-person pick up at the nearest post office by going to the USPS website, creating a USPS Informed Delivery Account , and selecting “hold for pickup.” Designate a “c/o” individual and address on your I-765 form (question #3) and have this designated individual receive your EAD Card in person. Without the “c/o,” designate an individual to receive your EAD Card (and all other mail) by completing the Postal Service’s PS Form 3801, Standing Delivery Order (PDF) or PS Form 3801-A, Agreement by a Hotel, Apartment House, or the Like (PDF) . You must submit the form to USPS before your EAD Card is mailed.

Receive in-person at the address listed on your I-765 form (question #3).

Arrange in-person pick up at the nearest post office by going to the USPS website, creating a USPS Informed Delivery Account , and selecting “hold for pickup.”

Designate a “c/o” individual and address on your I-765 form (question #3) and have this designated individual receive your EAD Card in person.

Without the “c/o,” designate an individual to receive your EAD Card (and all other mail) by completing the Postal Service’s PS Form 3801, Standing Delivery Order (PDF) or PS Form 3801-A, Agreement by a Hotel, Apartment House, or the Like (PDF) . You must submit the form to USPS before your EAD Card is mailed.

Please note that all options require individuals to present two types of ID (e.g. Passport, Driver’s License, School ID Card, etc.).

F-1 Optional Practical Training (OPT)

Cap Gap Extension

Pre-Completion OPT

Frequently Asked Questions