Living On Campus

Traditional Summer Program

Traditional Summer Program

UPDATED: Monday, April 13 : If you are a Fall 2026 incoming first year or incoming transfer student, we ask that you wait to submit a summer housing application and contract until you have a secured your campus AD account (after you've accepted your campus Admission and followed the checklist items).

Designed for both new incoming freshmen and new incoming transfer students, new incoming international students, UC continuing students not currently housed on campus, and visiting students who will be enrolled in UC San Diego Summer Session and is an incoming admitted student for Fall 2026.

Non-residents (students who are not currently housed on campus), visitors, incoming freshmen, and incoming transfer students enrolled at the university in the summer will be housed in the Traditional Summer Housing Program.

All Traditional summer housing residents must be 17 years of age at the time that they take residency in addition to being enrolled in summer session I or II courses.

All summer housing residents must be enrolled in courses in order to be eligible for on campus housing. Summer housing eligibility is strictly limited to the specific session(s) in which you are enrolled. Residents may only occupy their assigned space during summer I or summer II if they are registered for classes during that respective term.

Must be an incoming student for Fall 2026.

Deadline to apply for Summer Session I is June 10th Move-in is scheduled for June 27, 2026.

Deadline to apply for Summer Session II is July 13th. Move-in is scheduled for August 1, 2026.

Traditional Sample Housing Contract, Payment Schedule and Dining Rates

Housing Cost and Payment Schedule 2026 Traditional Summer Housing

Sample Housing Contract: UC San Diego Single Undergraduate Residential Housing Contract, Traditional and Summer Success, Summer 2026

Cancellation fee of $150.00 applies to cancellations received after student has completed the housing contract process. Review the Summer 2026 Cancellation Policy below.

Summer Housing is billed weekly. Students who cancel or terminate their housing contract will incur charges up to the Saturday of the week in which they move out.

Summer 2026 Room & Board Rate: Housing & Blue Dining Plan: $83/per night with double occupancy bedroom (limited availability) $87.80/per night with single occupancy bedroom The Traditional Summer Program includes a required declining balance dining plan . Blue Dining Plan: $28.40/per day The Summer Dining Plan cannot be changed to a lesser value, transferred, dropped, or refunded. Student is encouraged to use all summer dining funds prior to the end of their Traditional Summer Housing Contract

Housing & Blue Dining Plan: $83/per night with double occupancy bedroom (limited availability) $87.80/per night with single occupancy bedroom

$83/per night with double occupancy bedroom (limited availability)

$87.80/per night with single occupancy bedroom

The Traditional Summer Program includes a required declining balance dining plan . Blue Dining Plan: $28.40/per day The Summer Dining Plan cannot be changed to a lesser value, transferred, dropped, or refunded. Student is encouraged to use all summer dining funds prior to the end of their Traditional Summer Housing Contract

Blue Dining Plan: $28.40/per day

The Summer Dining Plan cannot be changed to a lesser value, transferred, dropped, or refunded. Student is encouraged to use all summer dining funds prior to the end of their Traditional Summer Housing Contract

Rates include weekly custodial services in common areas only

Apartment units are furnished and include kitchens with refrigerators and stoves. All bedrooms include a bed, desk, chair, closet, and bookshelf for each resident. Laundry facilities are located in the complex. Linens, including blankets and pillows, are not provided.

CANCELLATION of Summer Housing Contract

Review the UC San Diego Summer Housing Cancellation Policy, Summer 2026 .

Prior to your move-in date and before you take occupancy, if you wish to cancel your housing contract you must notify HDH and the Summer Housing Team by logging into the Summer Housing Portal and clicking on the “Summer Housing Application, Checklist, FAQ, Change and Cancellation Requests” link.

Students will be assessed a cancellation fee in the amount of $150.00. Cancellation of this contract will be effective upon receipt of the request. Resident agrees to pay the cancellation fee as specified in the UC San Diego Summer Housing Cancellation Policy .

Policy Limitation: This policy no longer applies once a student checks in, obtains keys, or reaches their contract start date (whichever occurs first). After this point, Section 8 – “Termination” applies.

Assurance of Accommodation

Resident shall be assured of accommodations when resident receives a confirmation email from summerhousing@ucsd.edu after completing the contract process and submitting the $150.00 prepayment.

Eligibility, Contract Process / Pre-Payment

Non-residents (students who are not currently housed on campus), visitors, incoming freshmen, and incoming transfer students enrolled at the university in the summer will be housed in the Traditional Summer Housing Program.

All summer housing residents must be enrolled in courses in order to be eligible for on campus housing. Summer housing eligibility is strictly limited to the specific session(s) in which you are enrolled. Residents may only occupy their assigned space during summer I or summer II if they are registered for classes during that respective term.

All Traditional summer housing residents must be 17 years of age at the time that they take residency in the summer allocation in addition to being enrolled in courses in order to be eligible for on campus housing as well as being an incoming student for Fall 2026. The Traditional Summer Program includes dining in addition to custodial services which includes the cleaning of common areas only (laundry facilities, student activity center, kitchen (apartments only), bathroom and student lounge). Residents are responsible for the cleaning of their private sleeping areas and removal of their trash.

Contract Process & Pre-Payment

Your housing application will be processed within 5-7 business days upon being received by the Summer Housing Team. After, you will receive an email with the contract link in order to sign your housing contract. Once your contract has been signed you will receive another email with the link to submit a prepayment in the amount of $150.00 via E-check or Credit Card. This $150.00 prepayment cannot be paid via your student account on Triton Link , as there will not be a charge on your student account. Instead, you will be directed to a secure third-party site to make the prepayment. Please make sure that you have the following information ready to make your e-check payment: name of the bank, account holder, bank account number, and routing number. Credit Card is also an option. You will have three days from the time that you receive the payment link to submit your prepayment. Failure to submit your prepayment within the given deadline of three days will result in your application being considered null and void by the Summer Housing Team.

If you are having problems with the contracting process, please email the Summer Housing Team at summerhousing@ucsd.edu with your name and your PID.

Living On Campus

Living On Campus

Students participating in Summer Housing will be housed at Marshall College - Ridge Walk Living Learning Neighborhood.  Majority of beds will be shared double bedrooms with limited single spaces. All units are shared.

More information on the Marshall College neighborhood will be posted in  early May 2026.

Information provided in June 2026

Information provided in June 2026

The Laundry Machines are NOT coin operated; however, you can pay conveniently with your Laundry account on your campus ID card.

The Laundry account is the prepaid spending account for all undergraduate residents; you add whatever amount you like through the Transact eAccounts Portal and the balance is linked to your campus ID card.  Students can begin adding money on/after the following dates:  Summer Session 1 - after June 30th and Summer Session 2 - after August 4th.

Laundry machines use High Efficiency (HE) Detergent.

Wash is $1.50 per wash

Dry is $1.25, extra 15 minutes .25

If you have any questions regarding your Laundry account, please contact Triton Card Accounts Services (Triton Card Account Services) at 858.534.7587 or tritoncardaccounts@ucsd.edu .

Connecting to ResNet

For instructions on how to connect to the internet in your Apartment or Residence Hall please visit the Res Net "Get Connected" Instructional web page .

Housing and Residential Life Policies

Please see the Housing and Residential Life Policies and be familiar with them while you live on campus this summer.

University Centers

As you enjoy your summer with us, check out a few items available to you at the University Centers Shops & Services .

Triton Cash is the University's pre-paid spending account that is linked directly to your campus ID card so check out Triton Cash for more information on what's available this summer.

Priority Deadlines

Priority Deadlines

Summer Housing Session

Priority Deadline**

1St 5 Week Session

Extend SSI Session

2nd 5 Week Session

***The Housing Office requests that you submit your summer housing application by the priority deadline ONLY so we are better able to honor your preferences (i.e. session dates, room preference, and roommate requests). If you miss the priority deadline for chosen session, you may still apply and be housed on campus if there is space, however the Summer Allocations Office may not be able to place you in your preferred room space nor consider your roommate requests

Your summer dining allows you to dine at all UC San Diego dining facilities that will be open over the summer at Oceanview at Pangea Residence Halls and Good's Market at Marshall College. Summer dining is a declining balance. When dining at a UC San Diego dining facility you must identify yourself as “summer session” to the cashier when paying for your meal.

Summer dining can only be used at UC San Diego Dining Services locations that are available during your summer stay. A request to change your summer dining

View the Summer Dining website for more information in June!

Roommate Requests

Summer housing residents will be in double bedrooms and some limited single occupancy bedrooms.  If there is someone who also applied for Summer Housing and has the same summer session, there will be an opportunity to indicate a potential suite-mate or apartment-mate.  We cannot guarantee those requests, but will make every effort to do so.

Extended Housing

Extended Housing Program (Post Summer Housing / Pre-Academic school year)

Please check out the program details here: Extended Housing

Undergrad Housing

Summer Housing acceleRATE Traditional Summer Success Short-Term Transition

Short-Term Transition

Please visit the Summer Session website to view classes offered this summer.