Student Services

Starting a New Program

Additional Resources

New Summer Session Visiting  Students

New Summer Session Visiting Students

Welcome! This page will help you get ready to start your unforgettable student experience at UC San Diego as a visiting international summer session student .

The information below is for students OUTSIDE of the U.S. who do not have a PID and have not enrolled at UC San Diego. I nterested in applying for admission to summer session at UC San Diego? Visit the Summer Session website for more information about how to become visiting summer session student!

If you are enrolling as an F-1 student on OPT who is INSIDE of the U.S., who has a PID and has completed a degree at UC San Diego.

Step 1: Request your Immigration Documents

Meet Admission and English Proficiency Requirement

The International Services and Engagement Office ( ISEO ) congratulates you on your acceptance to Summer Session at the University of California, San Diego! Once you have completed the Summer Session Application and requested your Student ID and password you can start the process of requesting your visa document.

English Proficiency Requirement

All international students requesting visa documents through the University of California, San Diego are required to meet the university's English Proficiency Requirement.

Visit the Undergraduate Admissions website for more information on how to meet this requirement. You are advised to prepare early to ensure that you meet this requirement before you submit your application for Summer Session.

When requesting your Form I-20 or Form DS-2019, you will be required to upload evidence of English proficiency. For questions regarding English Proficiency Requirements, email iStudents@ucsd.edu .

Pay the ISEO Visa Administrative Fee

The fee is $657.00

An additional $84.16 overhead cost recovery and service fee may apply.

Fees subject to change without prior notification. The fee is a non-refundable except in specific cases .

Enroll in Classes

All international students are required to enroll full-time for each summer session they will be attending at UC San Diego. This is typically Session One and or Session Two. Full-Time Enrollment is considered 6 units or more each summer session . Ensure that by the end of the add/drop deadline for each summer session, you are enrolled in a minimum of 6 units! See Summer Session page for details of Add/Drop Deadline and enrollment calendar.

Understand the Summer Session Enrollment Process through WebReg!

It is important to note that students who are unable to take 6 or more units due to medical, academic, or other reasons should speak to an international student advisor BEFORE dropping below 6 units to avoid any problems with their immigration status.

Request your Form I-20 (F-1 Students) or Form DS-2019 (J-1 Students)

International students requiring a non-immigrant F-1 or J-1 visa to study in the USA must request and receive a Form I-20 (F-1 Student) or DS-2019 (J-1 Exchange Visitor) to begin their program of study at UC San Diego. The Form I-20 or Form DS-2019 is required to apply for the F-1 or J-1 visa .

iServices is an online portal which serves as ISEO's document request system for F-1 and J-1 international students and scholars. Through iServices, students are able to request immigration documents, such as the F-1 Form I-20 or J-1 Form DS-2019 from ISEO, in addition to reporting certain changes to their visa status or obtaining other support documents. ISEO's iServices Instructions for Students page contains helpful information and troubleshooting guides for users accessing and submitting requests through iServices.

Request your Form I-20 or Form DS-2019 in iServices:

LOG INTO iSERVICES Log into iServices with your Active Directory credentials. Note, you must wait 24 hours after filling out the Summer Session online application and requesting the UC San Diego username and password to access iServices.

SELECT A FORM On the left hand section, select 'Starting a New Program at UC San Diego' and locate the Summer Session Visiting Student form.

COMPLETE YOUR REQUEST There may be multiple forms to complete within the Summer SEssion Visiting Student request. Complete all required forms and upload all requested documents. You can view the status of your New Admit request under the "Requests" section of the iServices Home Page. When you have successfully submitted a request, the status of your request will be "Pending Office Approval."

Deadline to Submit Requests

iServices.ucsd.edu will open on MONDAY, MARCH 3, 2025 , for newly admitted Summer and Fall 2025 international students to begin requesting their immigration documents.

The deadline to apply for an initial I-20 or DS-2019 is:

Summer Session I & II participants: May 30, 2025

Summer Session II only participants: July 4, 2025

Special Session participants: At least 30 days before your course begins

Receiving your Immigration Document

Please note that the processing time for a New Admit request will depend on a number of different factors and cannot be guaranteed.

The processing time for a New Admit I-20/DS-2019 request is approximately 15 business days from the date a complete and accurate request is submitted in iServices.

For students transferring their SEVIS record to UC San Diego, the processing time for a New Admit I-20/DS-2019 document is approximately 15 business days from your SEVIS release date or the date the date a complete and accurate request is submitted in iServices, whichever is later .

Incomplete Requests: New Admit requests will be set to incomplete when additional information, updated information, or clarification is needed. For this reason, please thoroughly review all instructions (on this site and within the iServices request) and all responses prior to submitting. Please note that days that iServices request remains in an incomplete status will not count towards the approximate 15 business day processing time and may cause a delay in processing. If your application is incomplete or invalid, you will be contacted by an ISEO Advisor with instructions to resubmit or add clarifying information to your request. The speed at which a New Admit request can be processed is largely dependent on how complete and accurate the request is at the time of submission.

Completed Requests: Once your Form I-20 or DS-2019 is ready, it will be emailed to your UCSD email for access. It will also be uploaded in iServices. You will receive an email confirmation of your completed request with instructions on how to access your immigration document. You will need to download, print, and sign it.

Reviewing for Accuracy

SEVIS ID Number: You can find your SEVIS ID number in the top right-hand corner of your Form I-20 or Form DS-2019 form. It's a unique identifier that starts with the letter "N". If you transferred your SEVIS Record to UC San Diego, this SEVIS ID number should be the same as your previous institution's.

Biographical Information: ISEO will always use the legal information listed in your passport.

Program Information: Program Level Major & CIP Code: The major as displayed on your document may look different, as it reflects a standardized CIP code rather than your major’s UC San Diego code and name used on Tritonlink. Find your major’s equivalent CIP Code to ensure that it is correct. Program Start Date: Reflects the start date of degree program or required in-person activity. Program End Date: The program end date is an estimate of how much time it will take you to complete your program. It may take you more or less time.

Major & CIP Code: The major as displayed on your document may look different, as it reflects a standardized CIP code rather than your major’s UC San Diego code and name used on Tritonlink. Find your major’s equivalent CIP Code to ensure that it is correct.

Program Start Date: Reflects the start date of degree program or required in-person activity.

Program End Date: The program end date is an estimate of how much time it will take you to complete your program. It may take you more or less time.

Funding: Ensure your funding sources and amounts are accurate.

DSO Signature: Ensure there is a valid signature from an ISEO Staff Member on the first and second page.

Student Signature: Make sure that you print and sign F-1 Form I-20: Sign under the Student Attestation section. J-1 Form DS-2019: Sign under the Exchange Visitor Certification section.

F-1 Form I-20: Sign under the Student Attestation section.

J-1 Form DS-2019: Sign under the Exchange Visitor Certification section.

If you need to edit any information on your document, follow instructions here.

Understand your Program Start Date & Earliest Date of Arrival

When Is My Program Start Date?

If you are a non-UC San Diego student in the U.S. and plan to transfer your record to UC San Diego in order to take online Summer Session classes, you will be issued either a summer session one or summer session two start date. The first date of the summer session term will be the program start date listed on your form I-20 or DS-2019.

Receiving a New Form I-20 or Form DS-2019 with the SAME SEVIS ID NUMBER (Students Transferring their SEVIS Record to UC San Diego):

Note that if your last date of enrollment or last date of authorized Optional Practical Training (OPT) at another U.S. institution is within 5 months of the summer session start date, you may request to transfer your SEVIS Record to UC San Diego.

See the next section, "Transfer your SEVIS Record to UC San Diego (if applicable)" for more information.

When Can I Enter the U.S. with My Form I-20 or Form DS-2019 from UC San Diego?

Restrictions on entering the U.S. once you've received your Form I-20 or Form DS-2019 from UC San Diego will depend on two things: Your SEVIS ID Number and Program Start Date.

Receiving a NEW SEVIS ID NUMBER from UC San Diego: You may enter the U.S. 30 days prior to the Program Start Date listed on your Form I-20/Form DS-2019.

Receiving the SAME SEVIS ID NUMBER from UC San Diego: If you receive the same SEVIS ID Number, you successfully transferred your SEVIS record to UC San Diego from another institution in the U.S. Unlike students who receive a NEW SEVIS ID, there are no restriction on entering anytime prior to 30 days before the start date.This means you may enter any time before the program start date but should only re-enter the U.S. with your I-20/DS-2019 from UC San Diego in hand.

Transfer your SEVIS Record to UC San Diego (if applicable)

Note that if your last date of enrollment or last date of authorized Optional Practical Training (OPT) at another U.S. institution is within 5 months of the intended summer session term start date, you may be eligible to request to transfer your SEVIS Record to UC San Diego. Please note the information below is ONLY applicable for F-1 students. J-1 Students seeking a SEVIS Transfer should first contact ISPO.

What does it mean to transfer my SEVIS record?

Many students think the term ‘Transfer’ only applies to the transferring of academic credits or units from one school to another. For example, transferring 60 units/credits from a Community College to UC San Diego. However, for international students, the terms ‘SEVIS Transfer’, ‘Transferring my SEVIS Record’, or ‘Releasing my SEVIS Record’ can actually mean something different!

If you are currently enrolled at another U.S. Institution and hold an active SEVIS record and SEVIS ID Number, you may be eligible for a SEVIS Transfer.

A SEVIS Transfer occurs when a Designated School Official (DSO) at your current institution electronically sends your SEVIS record (Form I-20) to UC San Diego.

Once they electronically release your SEVIS record, UC San Diego can then issue you a Form I-20 with the SAME SEVIS ID Number. The I-20 you receive from UC San Diego will reflect your new program dates and details.

A DSO can electronically release your SEVIS record on the same day or schedule a transfer for a future date. The date that the record is released from your current school to UC San Diego is know as your SEVIS Record Release Date.

UC San Diego does not use a transfer-in form for students transferring into our school. If your current school needs verification of your SEVIS transfer, please contact ISEO via icontact.ucsd.edu .

How do I know if I am eligible for a SEVIS transfer?

If your last date of enrollment or last date of employment on post-completion OPT is within 5 months of your program start date at UC San Diego, you may be eligible to request a SEVIS Transfer.

Eligibility to transfer is decided by your current school that holds your SEVIS Record and Form I-20.

Note that SEVIS Transfers are NOT automatic upon acceptance to Summer Session at UC San Diego. You must contact your current school to request a timely SEVIS Transfer.

The deadline for F-1 students to request a SEVIS transfer from their previous school is 60 days after the program completion date or OPT end date, whichever is later.

What’s the process of transferring my SEVIS record?

SEVIS Transfers require coordination between you, the DSO at your current school, and UC San Diego.

Schedule a SEVIS Release Date: You’ll need to contact your DSO at your current school and let them know that you wish to transfer your SEVIS record to UC San Diego. Our SEVIS school code is SND214F00088000. Ensure that you obtain written confirmation from your school that your SEVIS record was released successfully in active status. Ensure that your release date is within 5 months of when you wish to begin your summer session at UC San Diego (please see summersession.ucsd.edu for more details)

Request Form I-20 from UC San Diego in iServices: Don't wait until your SEVIS Release Date to request your Form I-20 from UC San Diego! Even prior to your SEVIS Release date, you can log into iServices and request your I-20 from UC San Diego. We will issue your I-20 within 15 business days of your iServices Request or your SEVIS Release Date, whichever is later. If your SEVIS Record is not released to UC San Diego on your indicated SEVIS Release Date, UC San Diego will contact you to let you know! However, it is your responsibility to follow up with your current school to ensure the SEVIS record was released successfully on your SEVIS release date to UC San Diego.

Receive UCSD I-20 from UC San Diego & Begin Program: Once you receive your document from UC San Diego, ensure that the SEVIS ID listed is the same SEVIS ID number listed on your previous school’s I-20. Begin your program at UC San Diego on the program start date listed on your Form I-20.

Transferring your SEVIS Record allows you to:

Exit and re-enter any time before their program start date but may only re-enter the U.S. with a valid F-1 or J-1 Visa and your I-20/DS-2019 from UC San Diego in hand.

After receiving your I-20 (F-1 Students) or DS-2019 (J-1 Exchange Visitors), you must pay your SEVIS fee to activate your document. This fee is paid each time you receive a new SEVIS ID Number.

Students transferring their SEVIS record to UC San Diego are NOT required to pay the SEVIS fee again since their SEVIS ID Number remains the same.

Pay via Internet, via Western Union, or by mail.

Keep the Form I-797 receipt in a safe place.

Review the FMJ Fee Page for details.

Step 2: Prepare for Arrival

Apply for your F-1 or J-1 Student Visa (if applicable)

Before you can come to the United States as an international student, you MUST obtain an F-1 or J-1 visa. Make sure to thoroughly review our Visa Applicatio n page for detailed instructions and tips on how to obtain a visa.

Scheduling your Visa Interview:

After receiving your I-20/DS-2019 document, complete the DS-160 Online Nonimmigrant Visa Application form. You will need your SEVIS ID (number starting with “N” located at the top of your I-20/DS-2019) to complete this. In addition, J-1 students will need to provide UCSD’s J-1 Program Number. This number is: P-1-02849.

When asked for UC San Diego’s contact information for the DS-160, you may put down the following:

Contact name: Name of the advisor listed on your I-20/DS-2019 document

Contact phone: 858-534-3730

Contact email: istudents@ucsd.edu

Housing, Tuition, and Fees

For on campus housing options, please see Summer Session's housing resource page.

Watch Pre-Arrival Webinars

Pre-Arrival Webinars cover the following topics for newly admitted international students: International programs and services, review of immigration documentation, arriving in the U.S., housing and health insurance, campus resources, and frequently asked questions.

Please see our Webinars page for information on our pre-arrival webinars.

Complete Required Orientations

Vector Online Training:

Vector Training is an online program that introduces incoming you to our student community and your role in maintaining a welcoming campus environment. You will not be able to complete registration for courses until this requirement is met. For more information, including the deadline for completion, see the Office for the Prevention of Harassment & Discrimination (OPHD) website .

Academic Integrity Tutorial:

Complete the Academic Integrity Tutorial . For questions about the tutorial contact Contact Academic Integrity Office by phone (858) 822-2163 or email aio@ucsd.edu .

Gather Documents Needed for Entry into the United States

Ensure that you understand your Earliest Date of Admission/Arrival into the United States and that you have your immigration documents in-hand and ready to present to Customs when entering the U.S. DO NOT pack these documents inside of your check-in luggage. They should be easily accessible in your carry-on bag and ready to present at the Port of Entry :

Valid Passport: Review your passport and ensure that it is valid for at least 6 months after your date of intended entry into the U.S. Review your passport profile and visa page. Your first name and family/last name should be the same on both documents. If there are any errors, contact the U.S. Embassy or Consular Post immediately.

Valid F-1 or J-1 Visa: Your F-1 or J-1 Visa page is inside of your passport. Ensure your visa is valid. Sometimes students who have two passports may need to carry both if their valid F-1 or J-1 Visa page is inside of their expired passport. Review your passport and visa page. Your first name and family/last name should be the same on both documents. If there are any errors, contact the U.S. Embassy or Consular Post immediately.

Form I-20 or Form DS-2019 from UC San Diego: Ensure you use the most recent Form I-20 or DS-2019 issued to you by UC San Diego , printed, and signed by both ISEO (electronic or digital signature is OK) and by YOU (student signature must be a hand-signature/wet signature). You may only use an ORIGINAL Form I-20/DS-2019 from UC San Diego with a valid travel signature; photocopies of Form I-20 or DS-2019s will not be accepted. Additionally, you may not show an electronic version of your document; you must carry the original printed document with you.

Financial Statements and Supporting Documents: It is always a good idea to carry Financial Statements showing proof of financial support in addition to any supporting documents regarding your reason for visiting the United States.

Step 3: Arrival to the U.S. and UC San Diego

Arrange Your Transportation to San Diego

Learn how to get to UC San Diego after your arrival at Los Angeles or San Diego airport.

Review Transportation Upon Arriving in the USA: U.S. Airline and Airport Guidelines (U.S. Transportation Security Administration). We recommend students schedule 2-3 hours between connecting flights, or when crossing a land border, for SEVIS status verification processing at U.S. Ports of Entry.

Arrival at Los Angeles International Airport (LAX):

UC San Diego is located 112 miles (180 kilometers) south of the the Los Angeles International Airport (LAX) . Y ou will need to take a commuter flight, bus, train, or shuttle to San Diego.

Commuter flights

Continental Express

Delta Connection

US Airways Express

Shuttle & Ride Share Services

Shuttle service from LAX to UCSD costs may vary. We strongly encourage you to make a reservation in advance.

Flyaway Bus: LAX to Union Station

Uber (Ride Share)

Lyft (Ride Share) For Lyft UCSD-affiliate discounts ($15 credit for Lyft Business Profile, and $5 credit every 5 rides), see details here .

For Lyft UCSD-affiliate discounts ($15 credit for Lyft Business Profile, and $5 credit every 5 rides), see details here .

Amtrak (departures from LA Union Station)

Metrolink (departures from LA Union Station)

Arrival at San Diego International Airport (SAN):

UC San Diego is located 11 miles (18 kilometers) north of the San Diego International Airport (SAN) . The c ost for a taxi or rideshare to the UCSD area will vary .

Shuttle & Ride Share Services

Shuttle to the Old Town Transit Center (Free) Be sure to check out the newest extension of San Diego's MTS trolley line (the Blue Line) that takes passengers directly into La Jolla and the UC San Diego campus as well.

Be sure to check out the newest extension of San Diego's MTS trolley line (the Blue Line) that takes passengers directly into La Jolla and the UC San Diego campus as well.

Prime Time Shuttle

Uber (Ride Share)

Lyft (Ride Share) For Lyft UCSD-affiliate discounts ($15 credit for Lyft Business Profile, and $5 credit every 5 rides), see details here .

For Lyft UCSD-affiliate discounts ($15 credit for Lyft Business Profile, and $5 credit every 5 rides), see details here .

Document iSelfCheck

Within 10 days after arrival into the USA, complete the International Student Document Self-Check . It is important for you to verify that your documents were processed correctly at the port of entry.

Please note that there is no need to notify ISEO when you complete document self-check unless you have questions or if you believe there is an error in your visa status.

Campus Directory and Map

Once you arrive to campus, familiarize yourself with your new home! Visit Maps.ucsd.edu to search for campus locations, classrooms, college and department advising, dining, and more!

CONTACT INFORMATION

General Campus Resources

Transcripts & Admissions Letters (Undergraduate Students)

Office of Admissions

Office of Admissions Contact Page

Transcripts & Admissions Letters (Graduate Students)

Graduate Admissions

Graduate Admissions Contact Page

Immunization and Health Requirements

Student Health Services

Student Health Services Contact Page

Health Insurance

UCSD Student Health Insurance (SHIP)

Student Health Insurance Information

Paying Tuition & Fees

Student Financial Solutions (Student Billing Office)

Student Financial Solutions Page

Student Financial Solutions (Campus Card Office)

Campus Cards Page

ISEO Orientation Page

Move-In/On Campus Housing

Housing, Dining & Hospitality

UCSD Housing Page

Academic Advising & Classes

Enrolling in Classes/Using WebReg

Undergraduate College (Undergraduate Students) Graduate Coordinators & Departments (Graduate Students)

Undergraduate College (Undergraduate Students)

Graduate Coordinators & Departments (Graduate Students)

Information on Enrolling in Classes

Academic Advising (Undergraduate Students)

Undergraduate College (Undergraduate Students)

Academic Advising Information

Academic Advising for Graduate Students (Graduate Students)

Graduate Coordinators & Departments (Graduate Students)

Contact home department

Books & School Supplies

UC San Diego Bookstore

UC San Diego Bookstore

Taking Classes in the Summer

Information on Summer Sessions

Immigration Resources

F-1/J-1 Status and My Immigration Documents

International Services and Engagement Office (ISEO)

Traveling to Mexico/ General Travel Guidelines

International Services and Engagement Office (ISEO)

Working On/Off-Campus

International Services and Engagement Office (ISEO)

iEmployment Page

iEmployment Page

Frequently Asked Questions

Can I request an expedite of my NEW ADMIT Form I-20 or DS-2019 request?

Completion of your NEW ADMIT request before its due date (as shown in iPortal) is subject to our advisors' current workload and it is not guaranteed .

EXPEDITE REQUESTS WILL ONLY BE CONSIDERED IF YOU MEET ONE OF THE FOLLOWING:

You already hold a valid F-1 or J-1 visa stamp, and your flight to the U.S. is scheduled prior to the due date shown on your NEW ADMIT request in iPortal. You must upload a copy of your flight itinerary and your valid F-1 or J-1 visa stamp as part of your expedite request.

You must upload a copy of your flight itinerary and your valid F-1 or J-1 visa stamp as part of your expedite request.

Your visa appointment is scheduled prior to the due date shown on your NEW ADMIT request in iPortal. You must upload a copy of your DS-160 visa appointment confirmation page showing your name, date of birth, and passport number; the date of your visa interview; and the location (U.S. consulate) of your visa appointment.

You must upload a copy of your DS-160 visa appointment confirmation page showing your name, date of birth, and passport number; the date of your visa interview; and the location (U.S. consulate) of your visa appointment.

Your Program Start Date is less than 30 days away from the due date shown on your NEW ADMIT request in iPortal. You will be required to upload a copy of your UC San Diego admission letter showing your name and confirming your program start date to your expedite request.

You will be required to upload a copy of your UC San Diego admission letter showing your name and confirming your program start date to your expedite request.

PROCESSING TIME REMINDER: The processing time for your Form I-20 or DS-2019 document is 15 business days from the date you successfully complete and submit your NEW ADMIT request in iPortal. Incomplete requests will cause a delay in processing. If your application is incomplete or invalid, you will be contacted by an ISEO Advisor via the Comments section of your NEW ADMIT request in iPortal. Processing delay due to incomplete or invalid requests is not sufficient reasoning to request an expedite.

How to submit your expedite request:

If you fall into one of the three reasons listed above AND you have the required documentation, please submit your expedite request via the instructions below:

Submit the CONTACT FORM .

Fill out the form, including your PID. Respond to the following questions as follows: I am a: Newly-admitted International Student (ISPO) I have a question about: iPortal Request/Technical Assistance More specifically, I’d like to learn more about: Expedite a Pending Request

I am a: Newly-admitted International Student (ISPO)

I have a question about: iPortal Request/Technical Assistance

More specifically, I’d like to learn more about: Expedite a Pending Request

Complete the remaining drop-downs the form is asking for.

In the “Any additional information you’d like to share?” field, tell us which one of the three expedite reasons outlined above matches your situation, and provide a brief explanation. Example explanation: I am requesting an expedite because I am in situation #1: I already have a F-1 visa and my flight to the US is 10 days from now. I submitted my iPortal request for my Form I-20 yesterday, but the due date on the request shows that my I-20 won’t be ready before my flight. I have uploaded a copy of my flight itinerary and my F-1 visa as proof.

Example explanation: I am requesting an expedite because I am in situation #1: I already have a F-1 visa and my flight to the US is 10 days from now. I submitted my iPortal request for my Form I-20 yesterday, but the due date on the request shows that my I-20 won’t be ready before my flight. I have uploaded a copy of my flight itinerary and my F-1 visa as proof.

Upload the documents outlined above that are required to support your expedite request. NOTE: Expedite requests submitted without the required documentation will be considered ineligible for expedite.

Submit the contact form.

An ISEO Advisor will respond to your expedite request within 3-5 business days (1 week). If your expedite request meets the criteria above, you will receive confirmation that your request has been forwarded to an advisor for consideration. We will do our best to complete your request as soon as possible, but completion of your request before its due date as shown in iPortal is subject to our advisors' current workload and it is not guaranteed.

If your expedite request does not meet the criteria above, you will receive a response that your request does not meet the requirements and is ineligible for an expedite.

Please do not send multiple expedite requests. This negatively impacts processing time for both students and advisors.

RETURN TO iNEWSTUDENTS HOMEPAGE

Additional Resources

New Undergraduate (Bachelor’s) Students

New Graduate (Master’s and PhD) Students

New Exchange (Non-Degree) Students

New Summer Session Visiting Students

Summer Session Visiting Program for Alumni

Sponsored Students

Prospective Students