Student Services

Changing Visa Status

Change to Other Status or Permanent Residency

Changing to Other Visa Status or Permanent Residency

Change to B-2 Visitor/Tourist Status

ISEO provides comprehensive visa status advising and services for F and J visa categories, but unfortunately B-2 visa category is beyond the scope of our expertise.

However, if you are unable to book a departing flight from the US during the grace period following completion of your academic program at UC San Diego or your post-completion OPT,  you are encouraged to follow USCIS instructions for Special Situations and the Form I-539 page for applying for a Change of Status to B-2 Visitor/Tourist visa status to avoid accrual of unlawful presence. Changing status from F-1 to B-2 due to a special situation that prevented a planned and timely departure will be taken into consideration by USCIS while reviewing your application.

Change to Another Non-Immigrant Status (H-1B, H-4, F-2, E-2, etc.)

If you change from F-1 or J-1 visa status to another non-immigrant status such as H-1B, H-4, F-2, E-2, etc., then you must submit the Ending Visa Status Request in iServices :

Find the Ending your Visa Status at UC San Diego category in the left menu. Select the Ending Visa Status Request .

Select the Ending Visa Status Request .

Prepare a PDF copy of your I-797 Approval notice showing your new status and date of approval.

You will receive a confirmation email when your request has been successfully submitted.

ISEO has an average processing time of 10 business days . You will be notified via email when your request is complete.

Adjust to Immigrant or Permanent Resident Status

If you adjust to immigrant/permanent resident status, then you must submit the Ending Visa Status Request in iServices :

Find the Ending your Visa Status at UC San Diego category in the left menu. Select the Ending Visa Status Request .

Select the Ending Visa Status Request .

Prepare a PDF copy of one of the following: I-797 approval notice, or U.S. Permanent Resident card (green card)

I-797 approval notice, or

U.S. Permanent Resident card (green card)

If you are ending STEM OPT early : Prepare a PDF copy of your I-983 (p.1-5) including the Final Evaluation section on page 5.

Prepare a PDF copy of your I-983 (p.1-5) including the Final Evaluation section on page 5.

You will receive a confirmation email when your request has been successfully submitted.

ISEO has an average processing time of 10 business days . You will be notified via email when your request is complete.

If you are still an enrolled student: Be sure that the UCSD Registrar has this information on record so that you are not listed as an international student in your student record. You can do this by emailing ResidenceDeputy@ucsd.edu and providing proof of your permanent residency, such as a green card. The Residence Deputy will then follow up with you directly if additional information is needed to declare residency for tuition purposes.

Changing Visa Status

Change to F-1 Status

Change to J-1 Status

Change to Other Status or Permanent Residency