Living On Campus

Undergrad Neighborhoods

HDH Undergraduate Neighborhoods

Pepper Canyon West

Single-Occupancy Bedrooms at Pepper Canyon West

Transfer and Upper Division Student Housing

The new Pepper Canyon West neighborhood includes two towers: Rya on the North side and Vela on the South side. The community boasts large courtyards, a game room, laundry facilities, a fitness center, community kitchen, and easy access to public transportation.

Furnished apartments

6-bed and 8-bed single occupancy apartments

2:1 student to bathroom ratio

Custodial services provided in public areas of the building

Program Guidelines

Priority for transfer students, followed by upper-division students

12-month contract

Dining plan not required

Class registration for Summer Session not required

Sample Room Layouts

6 Bedroom (6.10)

6 Bedroom (6.11)

6 Bedroom (6.12)

6 Bedroom (6.13)

6 Bedroom (6.14)

6 Bedroom (6.15)

6 Bedroom (6.16)

8 Bedroom (8.10)

8 Bedroom (8.11)

8 Bedroom (8.12)

8 Bedroom (8.13)

Frequently Asked Questions

Which students have priority to reside at Pepper Canyon West LLN?

Priority will be given to transfer students, followed by upper-division students.

What does it mean to meet housing eligibility requirements?

Students with a housing contract for Pepper Canyon West LLN must meet all current housing eligibility and housing guarantee requirements .

Since the contract is for 12 months, do I have to be enrolled in Summer Session classes?

Pepper Canyon West LLN is a unique housing community that allows students who have a contract for Pepper Canyon West LLN to remain on campus during the summer without requiring Summer Session enrollment. It is a fantastic opportunity to explore the great city of San Diego, seek campus summer employment, participate in internships and other academic endeavors while living on campus. The rate is also reduced during the summer months.

How much does it cost to live at Pepper Canyon West LLN for 12 months?

Pepper Canyon West is a fully furnished, apartment-style living with a kitchen, single bedrooms (6- or 8-bedrooms to an apartment) and a 2:1 bathroom ratio. You can find current rates for 2024-25, including the rate reduction for summer at Pepper Canyon West on our Housing Rates & Services page.

What are the dates of the 12-month contract?

The Pepper Canyon West housing contract begins on Sept. 21, 2024 and ends on Sept. 7, 2025 at 6 p.m. Students who complete the 2025-26 housing contract process will not be required to vacate their space on Sept. 7, 2025 unless they selected a new space or community for 2025-26. More information about housing for 2025-26 will be available by February 2025.

What if I change my mind before my contract starts or pick up my keys and I want to cancel my contract?

Students who signed a contract but want to cancel prior to the contract start date are subject to the UC San Diego Housing Cancellation Policy .

How do I terminate my contract after I move in?

After the contract start date (Sept. 21, 2024), students can submit a termination request via the Housing Portal. Terminations are approved based on the termination criteria provided in the housing contract. Students who provide documentation and meet contract termination criteria will be approved. If your termination request does not meet the criteria, your termination will be reviewed by the Housing Appeals Committee. You should not move out or sign any other leases without an approved termination.

What if my plans change and I need to move out over the summer?

Terminations are approved based on the termination criteria provided in the housing contract. Students who provide documentation and meet termination criteria will be approved. If your termination request does not meet the criteria, your termination will be reviewed by the Housing Appeals Committee. You should not move out or sign any other leases without an approved termination.

What if I graduate before the end of my contract?

If you graduate, you are eligible to terminate your housing contract. You will still need to submit a termination request via the Housing Portal along with documentation of your Degree and Diploma Application (DDA) submittal.

Am I required to have a dining plan at Pepper Canyon West LLN?

A dining plan is not required at this housing location. You have until Oct. 2, 2024, to add a dining plan.

Room Selection participants will have the option to pick a dining plan from May 1-13.

New, incoming students will have the option to select a dining plan during the housing contract process.

How can I sign up for a dining plan if I want one?

It is easy! You can select a dining plan via the Housing Portal, and you can always add more funds if needed. HDH Dining has more than 15 retail and dining experiences for you, including our fast and easy Amazon Just Walk Out Markets and specialty restaurants throughout campus. Students may also elect to deposit funds to their Triton Cash Accounts (which is required for campus laundry facilities) but also has over 60+ vendor locations on and off campus.

Room Assignments and Roommates

UPDATE INFORMATION HERE I was a Fall 2023 admitted transfer student who completed the full term of my 2023-24 housing contract. I have a housing guarantee for Fall 2024. How can I pick my roommates?

Instructions to create a roommate group as part of Room Selection can be found on the Room Selection Deadlines & Details page.

I am a newly admitted Fall 2024 Transfer student with a housing guarantee, how are roommates assigned?

You can find information for incoming student room assignments and roommates on our General FAQ page.

Amenities and Services

Are there study spaces and other areas for students to use outside of their apartments?

Yes! There are many community lounges, small study nooks, study rooms, terraces and activity spaces throughout the community in both towers for residents to enjoy.

What furnishings are provided?

All rooms are furnished with a twin bed and twin XL mattress, desk, desk chair, wardrobe and a small two-drawer dresser. The living room is furnished with a dining table and chairs, a sofa, lounge chairs, coffee and end tables, and a floor lamp. Bathrooms will have shower liners provided. Kitchen and bedroom(s) will have a one trash and one recycling bin provided. We do not provide toilet paper and trash liners.

What other amenities are in Pepper Canyon West LLN?

The community has many community spaces, including a social kitchen and many large lounges for study or events, rooftop terraces and fitness room. It is also located right next to the campus trolley station and the Epstein Family Amphitheater!

What appliances are provided in the kitchen?

The kitchens are furnished with storage shelves, a full-size refrigerator and stove.

What are the expectations for cleaning our apartment?

Residents are responsible for maintaining a clean, sanitary, hygienic and hazard‐free living environment. Suite expectations will be discussed at move in with your Resident Advisor (RA) as part of your living space agreement.

Are there laundry facilities onsite? If so, how much do they charge?

Yes, there are laundry facilities in the Pepper Canyon West community. Community laundry rooms for residents are located on the first floor of the North Tower (Rya) and the first floor of the South Tower (Vela). You will need to have Triton Cash deposited to your student ID account. You can easily make a deposit online or with the e-Accounts app on your smartphone. Laundry costs and more information can be found on our Laundry page.

HDH Undergraduate Neighborhoods

Getting Involved

Resident Resources

Community Policies and Conduct

Pangea Apartments & Residence Halls

Pepper Canyon East & Matthews Apartments

Pepper Canyon West

Rita Atkinson Residences

Upper Division Housing Residence Life Staff

Families and Friends

Residence Life Offices Contact Information