Formerly Guardian Scholars

The Hope Scholars Program supports former foster youth, homeless youth, and other disconnected students. In addition, the program provides funding to students who were in foster care after the age of 13 after attendance in their Hope Scholars Programming.

This is an inclusive program where all eligible students are invited to participate and enjoy the special privileges offered by the campus to welcome and support all Hope Scholars, however, students are required to apply to receive programmatic services. There are no age restrictions tied to program acceptance. Applications can be found here and may be filled out after a student has submitted their Accept Your Offer (AYO). The application has a rolling deadline, so students are welcome to apply to the program year-round.

More information on the Hope Scholars program can be found at their home department website: the Office of Academic Support and Instructional Services (OASIS) .

Special Privileges Include

Access to on-campus housing all year round, including the summer before your first fall term Priority enrollment, beginning second term of attendance at UC San Diego Student employment opportunities Life skills counseling Career planning Community events Graduation event for Hope Scholars

Access to on-campus housing all year round, including the summer before your first fall term

Priority enrollment, beginning second term of attendance at UC San Diego

Student employment opportunities

Life skills counseling

Community events

Graduation event for Hope Scholars

Other Hope Scholar Benefits

The program provides more than scholarship funds — it's designed to help ensure your academic success, to offer support services and experiences that encourage active participation in campus life, and to provide career-development skills for life after graduation. Take advantage of opportunities for year round on-campus housing, including the summer before your first fall term.

Friendly and informal meetings with your Hope Scholar mentor focus on problem-solving, life counseling, and encouragement. Workshops covering special topics like financial literacy, wellness, and locating an internship will be offered quarterly.

Eligibility Requirements for Hope Scholars Funding

Former foster youth, homeless youth, and other disconnected youth A full-time undergraduate student (at least 12 units per quarter) California resident, and United States citizen or permanent resident At least a 2.0 GPA in coursework Completed Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) form to apply for financial aid by the priority filing date

Former foster youth, homeless youth, and other disconnected youth

A full-time undergraduate student (at least 12 units per quarter)

California resident, and United States citizen or permanent resident

At least a 2.0 GPA in coursework

Completed Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) form to apply for financial aid by the priority filing date

Apply for Guardian Scholars Funding THROUGH OUR COMMUNITY PARTNER: PROMISES2KIDS

Promises2Kids awards eligible students up to $3,200 per academic year and is open to current/former SanDiego County Foster Youth.

Promises2Kids awards eligible students up to $3,200 per academic year and is open to current/former SanDiego County Foster Youth.

Download your Guardian Scholars application from Promises2Kids starting January 1st, and file it online with your responses and other requested documentation by the February 14th deadline.

Download your Guardian Scholars application from Promises2Kids starting January 1st, and file it online with your responses and other requested documentation by the February 14th deadline.

Promises2Kids selects and notifies the recipients of Guardian Scholarships.

Promises2Kids selects and notifies the recipients of Guardian Scholarships.

When Promises2Kids notifies UC San Diego of your award, it's added to your financial aid package.

When Promises2Kids notifies UC San Diego of your award, it's added to your financial aid package.

Additional Undergraduate Scholarships for Former Foster Youth

George Parker Memorial Scholarship

Awarded to: Entering first-year or transfer students with financial need who were orphaned for at least 3 years prior to the age of 18, and/or to students who were raised in foster care for at least 3 years immediately prior to the age of 18.

Awarded to: Entering first-year or transfer students with financial need who were orphaned for at least 3 years prior to the age of 18, and/or to students who were raised in foster care for at least 3 years immediately prior to the age of 18.

Award: For first-year students, a 4-year award up to $8,000 paid at up to $2,000 per year. The scholarship is renewable each year, provided you continue your full-time undergraduate enrollment at UC San Diego and remain in good academic standing. For transfers, a 2-year award up to $4,000, paid at up to $2,000 per year. The scholarship is renewable each year, provided you continue your full-time undergraduate enrollment at UC San Diego and remain in good academic standing.

For first-year students, a 4-year award up to $8,000 paid at up to $2,000 per year. The scholarship is renewable each year, provided you continue your full-time undergraduate enrollment at UC San Diego and remain in good academic standing.

For first-year students, a 4-year award up to $8,000 paid at up to $2,000 per year. The scholarship is renewable each year, provided you continue your full-time undergraduate enrollment at UC San Diego and remain in good academic standing.

For transfers, a 2-year award up to $4,000, paid at up to $2,000 per year. The scholarship is renewable each year, provided you continue your full-time undergraduate enrollment at UC San Diego and remain in good academic standing.

For transfers, a 2-year award up to $4,000, paid at up to $2,000 per year. The scholarship is renewable each year, provided you continue your full-time undergraduate enrollment at UC San Diego and remain in good academic standing.

Eligibility: Your UC admission application is considered your scholarship application. If selected, you must show evidence of financial need by submitting a FAFSA, and evidence of orphan or foster care status.

Eligibility: Your UC admission application is considered your scholarship application. If selected, you must show evidence of financial need by submitting a FAFSA, and evidence of orphan or foster care status.

Hope Scholars Grant

Awarded to: Undergraduate students who were in foster care after the age of 13 and are active participants in the UC San Diego Hope Scholars Program receive an annual Hope Scholars Grant to help with their education costs during the year and during periods of summer enrollment.

Contact Information

The Hope Scholarship Program is a collaborative effort among key campus departments and Promises2Kids .

For general program information and questions

Contact Hopegeneral@ucsd.edu or hopescholars@ucsd.edu .

For admissions information and questions

Prospective students, contact Timothy Borch , (858) 822-0348

For financial aid information and questions

Incoming and current students, contact Melisa Spencer at (858) 534-1588 or m5spencer@ucsd.edu . For Underground Scholars contact Renee Moore at 858-534-3971 or remoore@ucsd.edu .

For information about making a gift to the scholarship fund to support UC San Diego's Hope Scholars (former foster youth)

Sue Martindale , (858) 246-0316 as well as Give now

Other Funding Sources

Study Abroad / Exchange Programs

Have questions? Use this resource to find answers to all your frequently asked questions.

Frequently Asked Questions

Eligibility Requirements

Packaging Policy

How You Receive Your Financial Aid

Financial Aid Timeline - Current Undergrads

Financial Aid Timeline - 2026-2027 Prospective Undergrads