Enrolling at UC San Diego

Visiting & Exchange Students

Visiting & Exchange Students

University of California Intercampus Exchange Program

The Intercampus Exchange Program allows qualified graduate students to take advantage of educational opportunities at campuses within the UC system: ICEP Application (PDF)

Complete a minimum of one quarter of study prior to ICEP

GPA of 3.0 or above

Full-time enrollment (includes both campuses)

Informal arrangements should be made between student and faculty of both campuses. Upon agreement, student begins application process

Applications must be completed and filed with Graduate Education and Postdoctoral Affairs at least four weeks prior to the ICEP quarter

The Intercampus Exchange Program is not offered during summer

*Non-UC San Diego students must start with their home campus' Graduate Division as different eligibility criteria may apply. The application must first be submitted to the home campus Graduate Division, who will then coordinate with UC San Diego.

Submit application to your home department/faculty advisor for initial approval. Department forwards application to GEPA for the dean’s approval.

GEPA forwards application to the host campus Graduate Division for review.

The host campus sends a welcome letter to your email once the application is approved.

Enroll in applicable courses at host campus and verify that your name appears on the course roster.

The host campus will send confirmation of your enrollment to the GEPA at UCSD, and you will be enrolled in a placeholder course at UCSD. This placeholder course will reflect your ICEP units, bringing you to full-time enrollment at UCSD for administrative (including financial aid) purposes.

It is YOUR responsibility to adhere to registration and fee deadlines. You must pay fees at UCSD to have privileges at host campus.

NOTE: As stated above, the ICEP process begins at the student's home campus as other campuses may have different eligibility criteria. For non-UC San Diego students, the application must first be submitted to the home campus Graduate Division, who will then coordinate with UC San Diego.

Grades are sent to UCSD and will appear on your academic record. Verify grades are posted accurately.

Coursework taken at a University of California Campus will be calculated into the student's GPA.

NOTE: UCSD students studying at UC Berkeley or Merced during the spring semester must remain registered at UCSD for both winter and spring quarters.

UC San Diego and San Diego State Graduate Exchange Program

The Exchange Program allows qualified graduate students to take advantage of educational opportunities at both campuses: UCSD/SDSU Exchange Application (PDF)

*SDSU students: The Exchange process begins at SDSU. Check with your campus for additional eligibility criteria.

Complete a minimum of one quarter of study prior applying for the Exchange program

GPA of 3.0 or above

Full-time enrollment (includes both campuses)

Informal arrangements should be made between student and faculty of both campuses. Upon agreement, student begins application process

Application must be completed and filed with Graduate Education and Postdoctoral Affairs at least four weeks prior to the Exchange quarter

Obtain approval signatures from UCSD department/faculty advisor.

Obtain approval signatures from SDSU department/faculty advisor.

Submit application to the Graduate Education and Postdoctoral Affairs for the Dean’s approval.

Graduate Education and Postdoctoral Affairs will forward application to SDSU’s Graduate Education and Postdoctoral Affairs for final review.

SDSU will send a welcome letter to your email once the application is approved.

Enroll in applicable courses at SDSU and verify that your name appears on the course roster.

The SDSU will send confirmation of your enrollment to the Graduate Education and Postdoctoral Affairs at UCSD, and you will be enrolled in a placeholder course at UCSD. This placeholder course will reflect your ICEP units, bringing you to full-time enrollment at UCSD for administrative (including financial aid) purposes.

It is YOUR responsibility to adhere to registration and fee deadlines. You must pay fees at UCSD to have privileges at SDSU.

Grades are sent to UCSD and will appear on your academic record. Verify grades are posted accurately.

UC San Diego/UC Irvine Drama Joint Doctoral Program

The UCSD/UCI Drama Joint Doctoral Program allows graduate students to take advantage of educational opportunities at both campuses. Contact the Theatre and Dance department for the enrollment petition.

Approval must be obtained from home campus Program Director/Faculty Advisor prior to form submission

Application must be completed and filed with Graduate Education and Postdoctoral Affairs at least four weeks prior to the Exchange quarter

*UCI students: The enrollment petition must always be sent to the UCSD Theatre and Dance Department and Graduate Education and Postdoctoral Affairs. Wait for the UCSD Registrar to enroll you, do not enroll yourself directly into the class.

Obtain approval from home campus Program Director/Faculty Advisor.

Submit enrollment petition to home campus Graduate Coordinator, home campus Progam Director/Faculty Advisor, host campus Graduate Coordinator, and both Graduate Education and Postdoctoral Affairs. First time students must disclose their SSN and date of birth to the UCI Arts Counselor to create a student ID at the host campus.

The host campus will send a welcome letter to your email once enrollment is completed. Verify that your name appears on the course roster.

You will be enrolled in a placeholder course at your home campus. This placeholder course will reflect your intercampus exchange units, bringing you to full-time enrollment at your home campus for administrative (including financial aid) purposes.

It is YOUR responsibility to adhere to registration and fee deadlines. You must pay fees at your home campus to have privileges at the host campus.

Grades are sent to your home campus and will appear on your academic record. Verify grades are posted accurately.

Coursework taken at a University of California Campus will be calculated into the student's GPA.

Education Abroad Programs

EAP is a system-wide program which permits UCSD students to study abroad at host institutions and for foreign students at UC Study Centers to attend UC campuses for one-year of non-degree study.

UCSD graduate students seeking to study abroad through EAP need to consult the EAP office in the International Center. Permission to participate in the EAP program is granted by the home department and the Dean of the Graduate Education and Postdoctoral Affairs. Prior to departure, the student must have completed one year of graduate work and be in good academic standing.

Applications for admission to UCSD from EAP students are forwarded by the UC EAP office and to the Graduate Admissions. Departments should forward any application received directly from the EAP office to the Graduate Admissions in its entirety.

EAP students are not permitted to stay beyond one year.

In exceptional cases, the Dean of Graduate Education and Postdoctoral Affairs may approve requests for admission to a Masters or PhD degree program. In these cases, the student's application must be considered in competition with other students seeking admission for the same quarter of status change. If the student is approved to change status during or after the EAP year, all fees for that EAP year must be repaid to UCSD.

If approved to change to a Doctoral level, the doctoral time limits will begin accruing with the student's first quarter of registration at UCSD.

Coursework taken at an EAP Campus will be calculated into the student's GPA.

Visiting Graduate Students

For information on becoming a visiting graduate student, please click on the link below.

Non-UC Visiting Grads

Non-Degree Students

A non-degree student is admitted for coursework only and must meet all the usual requirements for admission. A non-degree student is entitled to all services such as housing, library, and health center, but is not eligible for fellowships or assistantships. Non-degree status is for one year only, although in certain cases, the dean may be petitioned, using a General Petition, for a one-year extension.

Students commonly in this category are those applying for admission to medical school who need more science coursework; Education Abroad Program (EAP) students; and students applying for regular admission to a program who are seeking to improve their academic background.

Non Discrimination Statement : In accordance with applicable Federal and State law and University policy, the University of California does not discriminate, or grant preferences, on the basis of race, color, national origin, religion, sex, disability, and/or other protected categories. More information about Proposition 209 can be found here . More information about the University of California Anti-Discrimination Policy can be found here.

Enrolling at UC San Diego

In Absentia Registration

Leave of Absence/Withdrawal

Retroactive Enrollment

Visiting & Exchange Students