Student Mail Services

Undergraduate Housing

Pangea Apartments & Residence Halls

Pangea Apartments & Residence Halls

All letter mail and packages for the Pangea housing community are handled by the Student Mail team in partnership with the Hospitality Information (HI) Desk.

Letter mail and packages from USPS are delivered to Student Mail before being distributed to the HI Desk within 1-2 days of receiving. All other carriers (i.e. UPS, FedEx, DHL, Amazon, etc.) deliver directly to the HI Desk teams. During peak periods (i.e. move-in, Black Friday, Cyber Monday, Prime Day, etc.), letter mail and packages may be delayed up to 2 business days.

Please use the information provided below to assist you with all of your Pangea Apartments & Residence Halls mail and package needs.

Upon moving in to your on campus residence, you will be assigned a box number. The box number is used to ensure the Student Mail team can properly process your packages and letters. Your lived name and box number must be included in your mailing address. For proper and timely delivery, always use the following format:

*Check your housing portal (QwikPass) or ask your Residential Life Office for your assigned box number.

Parcel Center Location & Hours

Location : The HI Desk at RWNLLN is located on the North facing ground floor entrance of Coalition Hall.

Hours : Check the HI Desk page for hours

Please be ready to present your Student ID and box number!

Mailbox Location & Combinations

Location : The Pangea apartment and residence halls mailboxes are located in Angela's Space.

Hours : Weekdays, 8 a.m. - 10 p.m. Weekends, 10 a.m. - 10 p.m.

Please contact your Residence Life Office for your mailbox combination.

How to Pick Up a Package in HI Desk at RWNLLN

Receive an email from studentmail@ucsd.edu.

Visit the HI Desk at RWNLLN.

Present your Student ID and box number to the HI Desk staff.

Receive package.

How to Open Your Mailbox at Pangea Apartments & Res Halls

Turn LEFT 3 times and stop at the 1st number.

Turn RIGHT one full turn and stop at the 2nd number.

Turn LEFT to the 3rd number. Pull to open!

NOTE: Locks may need to be pulled to the right slightly after 3rd number to open.

Students can send outgoing packages and letter mail at The Trove , located on Library Walk. The Trove is a full-service postal annex for all of your shipping and mailing needs. At The Trove, you can ship packages, purchase stamps or shipping supplies, and drop off prepaid USPS, UPS, or FedEx packages.

thetrove.ucsd.edu

Student Mail Resources

We’re here for you! Check out our resources for step-by-step guides, frequently asked questions, and mail policies.