Insurance: Other

RAFT: Reduced Access Fee for Tritons

RAFT helps students who waive UC SHIP access affordable care at UCSD Student Health Services (SHS).

All registered students can use SHS, whether they have UC SHIP or not. However, students who waive UC SHIP and do not enroll in RAFT must pay the full cost of services at SHS.

RAFT offers peace of mind by covering primary care services at SHS for a low quarterly fee.

If you are waiving UC SHIP, we recommend reviewing how to transfer your insurance coverage to San Diego to ensure you can access care locally.

Cost & Enrollment

$75.00 per quarter (Fall, Winter, Spring). Summer coverage is included and billed during the previous Spring quarter.

Automatically billed to your student account each quarter

Enroll during the online Health Fee Waiver application period. RAFT is Not offered once the quarter starts.

Email ship3@ucsd.edu for RAFT enrollment questions.

Only students who successfully waive UC SHIP are eligible

If you missed enrollment during the waiver process, you can log back into the Health Fee Waiver Tool to opt into RAFT

What RAFT Covers

RAFT applies only to services provided at UCSD SHS for illness or injury:

Scheduled primary care appointments

In-house laboratory tests , including: Cultures (throat, skin, stool, urine) Urinalysis Wet mount CBC Occult blood Medically indicated urine pregnancy test Rapid strep, mono, influenza antigen KOH (yeast/fungus testing) ESR Urine drug screen

Cultures (throat, skin, stool, urine)

Medically indicated urine pregnancy test

Rapid strep, mono, influenza antigen

KOH (yeast/fungus testing)

Urine drug screen

X-ray services performed at SHS

Access to SHS Urgent Care for $20 per visit

What RAFT Does Not Cover

Off-campus medical care

Lab tests sent to outside laboratories

Special or elective procedures

Prescriptions or over-the-counter medications

Immunizations, medical supplies, or optometry services

Routine health clearances or administrative exams

Any services not listed under “What RAFT Covers”

Services received outside of SHS

Important Details

RAFT is not insurance. Talk to your health plan ahead of time to see if you're eligible for reimbursement when receiving care at SHS.

RAFT fees are non-refundable unless: You lose private insurance and enroll in UC SHIP through the Exception to Closed Enrollment process.

You lose private insurance and enroll in UC SHIP through the Exception to Closed Enrollment process.

If your UC SHIP waiver is denied, your RAFT enrollment will be canceled and the fee refunded automatically.

Insurance: Other

Medi-Cal Recipients

Health Fee and Insurance Webinars

MyStudentChart and the UCSD Health System