UC SHIP for Non-registered Students and Dependents

UC SHIP for Non-registered Students and Dependents

All registered domestic and international students are automatically enrolled in the UC Student Health Insurance Plan (UC SHIP) however there are a few other classes of individuals who may enroll in the plan on a voluntary basis. Those groups are:

Graduate students who are on an Approved Leave of Absence (limit of 2 quarters)

Graduate students who are on a Filing Fee status

Dependents of students who are enrolled in the UC SHIP

NOT ELIGIBLE for UC SHIP: Visiting scholars, post-doctoral scholars, alumni (other than recently graduated—see left menu)

If you would like to enroll your dependents, click on the appropriate form below and submit directly to AHP. Refer to the selections below to learn about who is eligible and how to enroll in the voluntary plan. Dependents must re-enroll every quarter.

2025-2026 Premium Cost Sheets

Registered undergraduate students & their dependents

Early start for registered graduate students & their dependents

Early start for registered summer bridge students & their dependents

Voluntary for non-registered graduate students & their dependents

Voluntary/after graduation for non-registered undergraduate students & their dependents

Dependents of registered graduate students

Can I or my dependent enroll in UC SHIP after a Qualifying Life Event?

Registered students and/or eligible dependents may enroll in UC SHIP during the coverage period if they experience one of the following Qualifying Life Events:

Involuntary loss of other health insurance coverage

Turn 26 and lose coverage as a dependent on a parent's plan

Marriage or divorce

Birth or adoption of a child

Declaration or termination of a Domestic Partnership

Registered students who have a Qualifying Life Event during the coverage period, must notify the UC San Diego insurance office at ship3@ucsd.edu within 31 days of the loss of your coverage. You must provide an official written letter of termination from the previous health insurance carrier. You will be enrolled in UC SHIP as of the date of your involuntary loss of other coverage if notification is received within 31 days of the loss of your coverage. If notification is not received within that 31-day period, coverage will be effective on the date on which you pay the full UC SHIP premium.

To enroll a dependent into the plan, please fill out the dependent form for all qualifying event enrollments . The form must be submitted within 31 days of your qualifying event date.

NOTE: Premiums are not prorated for any enrollment occurring after the start of a coverage period, except premiums for newborns added as a dependent.

Changes for 2026

How to Use UC SHIP

Medical Assistance Fund

Medical Care Outside the UCSD Area

UC SHIP Committee

UC SHIP for Non-registered Students and Dependents Dependent Coverage Grad Students -Leave of Absence or Filing Fee Status After Graduation

Dependent Coverage

Grad Students -Leave of Absence or Filing Fee Status

After Graduation

Visitors From Other UC Campuses