Student Services

Changes to Enrollment

Reduced Course Loads (RCLs)

Reduced Course Loads (RCLs)

F-1 and J-1 students may apply for a Reduced Course Load (RCL) in order to be authorized to enroll in less than 12 units during a specific term. RCLs can only be approved for Final Quarter, Medical, Academic, or Filing Fee reasons, and they are approved for one quarter at a time.

Students must apply and receive RCL authorization from ISEO BEFORE dropping to less than 12 units.

Note : An application for an RCL application has no impact on tuition reduction. For reduced tuition, you must meet the eligibility requirements, be enrolled in the appropriate number of units, and submit a separate request to be approved for part-time/half-time status using the Part-Time e-Form (undergraduate students) or Half-Time e-Form (graduate students).  Make sure to submit the e-Form through the Registrar and drop below the appropriate number of units before the published deadline to be eligible for reduced tuition. If you have any questions about your tuition reduction or refund, contact the UC San Diego Registrar's Office directly.

Final Quarter RCL

A Final Quarter RCL is authorization for F-1 or J-1 students who are eligible to enroll in less than 12 units during their final, graduating quarter.

Final Quarter RCL Eligibility

In order to apply, you must be in your final graduating term and enrolled in less than 12 units and at least 1 unit. Students on an approved Final Quarter RCL with only one class left to graduate must ensure that this class is either hybrid or fully in-person. The class cannot be fully remote.

For graduates on filing fee status, please see the Filing Fee RCL information. Note that non-degree exchange students (UCEAP-Reciprocity and Global Exchange students) are not eligible for a Final Quarter RCL.

Undergraduate Students: “Degree and Diploma Application (DDA) Requirement – International students must have an active Degree and Diploma application before submitting a Reduced Course Load request. Requests submitted without an active Degree and Diploma application will not be processed. Please contact your College Advisor for more information and submit as soon as possible as processing times between departments vary.

Request a Final Quarter RCL

Request a Final Quarter RCL from ISEO

Submit the 'Final Quarter RCL Request' in iServices .

Find the Changes to Enrollment category in the left menu. Select Reduced Course Load (RCL) Request. Choose the Final Quarter RCL Request option according to your degree level.

Select Reduced Course Load (RCL) Request.

Choose the Final Quarter RCL Request option according to your degree level.

Submit all of the required eForms. You will receive a confirmation email when your request has been successfully submitted. NOTE: This request will first be sent to your college (undergraduates), department (graduates), or program coordinator (non-degree) for review, reflected as 'Routed to Third Party' status. Upon approval, it will then be forwarded to ISEO for review, indicated as 'Pending Office Approval' status.

NOTE: This request will first be sent to your college (undergraduates), department (graduates), or program coordinator (non-degree) for review, reflected as 'Routed to Third Party' status. Upon approval, it will then be forwarded to ISEO for review, indicated as 'Pending Office Approval' status.

J-1 students : If your final quarter RCL is approved, an updated DS-2019 may be issued if your program end date was shortened. If your DS-2019 did not need to be shortened, you will receive an email that you will need to save for your records.

ISEO has an average processing time of 10 business days . You will be notified via email when your request is complete.

This iServices RCL request is not the same as Part-Time/Half-Time Study application, and it will not reduce your tuition.

If you are unable to complete your program by the program end date on your I-20/DS-2019, you must submit a Program Extension Request on iServices at least 10 business days before your program end date.

Request Reduced Tuition from the Registrar's Office

Undergraduate students are eligible for part -time status if they enroll in 10 or fewer units AND are applying before the end of Week 2.

Graduate students are eligible for half -time status if they enroll in 6 or fewer units and are applying before the end of Week 2.

A Medical RCL is authorization for F-1 or J-1 students to enroll in 0-11 units during a Fall, Winter, or Spring quarter due to illness or medical condition.

Medical RCL Eligibility

A student can be authorized for a cumulative total of up to 12 months of Medical RCLs at a particular program level. Medical RCLs must be submitted and approved on a quarter-by-quarter basis .

Medical RCL Requirements:

To substantiate the illness/medical condition, the regulations require students requesting a Medical RCL to submit medical documentation with a clear recommendation for reduced course load. You can visit a UC San Diego Student Health Services medical doctor or a UC San Diego Counseling and Psychological Services (CAPS) clinical psychologist (preferred) to obtain this documentation.

You must provide current medical documentation ( no older than 3 months ) from a U.S. medical doctor, doctor of osteopathy, or licensed clinical psychologist.

Regarding pregnancy: A normal pregnancy/delivery is not considered a medical condition warranting a medical RCL, ISEO will review medical RCL requests for pregnant students after receiving a letter from a licensed medical doctor recommending the reduced course load and substantiating the illness or medical condition.

Medical Documentation MUST Include ALL of the Following:

Issued on office letterhead

Include the date the letter was issued

Include a general medical diagnosis (specifics are not required)

Include a clear recommendation that due to a medical condition/temporary illness the student take a reduced course load for the applicable term

Include the name and signature (electronic signatures are permitted) of a licensed medical professional that complies with F-1 and J-1 regulations. F-1 and J-1 regulations confirm that only the following can recommend students for a medical reduced course load : Licensed medical doctor (MD) Licensed doctor of osteopathy (DO), Licensed psychologist (LP) or a licensed clinical psychologist (LCP) *A letter from a practitioner other than one of the medical professionals listed above (such as a nurse practitioner, an acupuncturist, or a Doctor of Oriental Medicine) is NOT sufficient for the purposes of complying with the F-1 and J-1 regulations.

Licensed medical doctor (MD)

Licensed doctor of osteopathy (DO),

Licensed psychologist (LP) or a licensed clinical psychologist (LCP) *A letter from a practitioner other than one of the medical professionals listed above (such as a nurse practitioner, an acupuncturist, or a Doctor of Oriental Medicine) is NOT sufficient for the purposes of complying with the F-1 and J-1 regulations.

Request a Medical RCL

Request a Medical RCL from ISEO

You are strongly encouraged to meet with an international student advisor at ISEO before submitting your request.

Submit the Medical RCL Request in iServices .

Find the Changes to Enrollment category in the left menu. Select Reduced Course Load (RCL) Request. Choose the Medical RCL Request option according to your degree level.

Select Reduced Course Load (RCL) Request.

Choose the Medical RCL Request option according to your degree level.

Submit all of the required eForms. You will receive a confirmation email when your request has been successfully submitted. NOTE: This request will first be sent to your college (undergraduates), department (graduates), or program coordinator (non-degree) for review, reflected as 'Routed to Third Party' status. Upon approval, it will then be forwarded to ISEO for review, indicated as 'Pending Office Approval' status.

NOTE: This request will first be sent to your college (undergraduates), department (graduates), or program coordinator (non-degree) for review, reflected as 'Routed to Third Party' status. Upon approval, it will then be forwarded to ISEO for review, indicated as 'Pending Office Approval' status.

ISEO has an average processing time of 10 business days . You will be notified via email when your request is complete.

This iServices RCL request is not the same as Part-Time/Half-Time Study application, and it will not reduce your tuition.

Request Reduced Tuition from the Registrar's Office

Undergraduate students are eligible for part -time status if they enroll in 10 or fewer units AND are applying before the end of Week 2.

Graduate students are eligible for half -time status if they enroll in 6 or fewer units and are applying before the end of Week 2.

An Academic RCL is authorization for F-1 or J-1 students who are eligible to enroll in less than 12 units during a Fall, Winter, or Spring quarter due to initial academic difficulty.

Academic RCL Eligibility

Academic RCLs can be approved only once in a student's first quarter of enrollment at each program level.

Students with approved Academic RCLs must maintain a minimum of 6 units.

Students should make every attempt to enroll full-time through each quarter's add deadline. Academic RCL Applications should only be submitted after the add deadline has passed for the applicable term.

UC EAP reciprocity students need additional consultation with the UC EAP Systemwide Office and their home university in order to reduce their units below full time.

Academic RCL Requirements:

Students may apply for an Academic RCL only in their first quarter of enrollment at UC San Diego based on one of the three following situations:

Initial difficulty with the English language and/or with reading requirements

Unfamiliarity with American teaching methods

Withdrawal from a course due to improper course level placement (you are required to explain in your application why you were not academically prepared for the course you want to drop).

If you are not eligible for an academic RCL, you can consider choosing the P/NP (Pass/Not Pass) grade option if you are uncertain how well you are going to do in a class or when you do not want a class to count toward your GPA. You must change grading options by the end of Week 4 .

Request an Academic RCL

Request an Academic RCL from ISEO

You are strongly encouraged to meet with your College Advisor (undergraduate students) or Graduate Coordinator (graduate students) before submitting your request.

Submit the Academic RCL Request in iServices .

Find the Changes to Enrollment category in the left menu. Select Reduced Course Load (RCL) Request. Choose the Academic RCL Request option according to your degree level.

Select Reduced Course Load (RCL) Request.

Choose the Academic RCL Request option according to your degree level.

Submit all of the required eForms. You will receive a confirmation email when your request has been successfully submitted. NOTE: This request will first be sent to your college (undergraduates), department (graduates), or program coordinator (non-degree) for review, reflected as 'Routed to Third Party' status. Upon approval, it will then be forwarded to ISEO for review, indicated as 'Pending Office Approval' status.

NOTE: This request will first be sent to your college (undergraduates), department (graduates), or program coordinator (non-degree) for review, reflected as 'Routed to Third Party' status. Upon approval, it will then be forwarded to ISEO for review, indicated as 'Pending Office Approval' status.

ISEO has an average processing time of 10 business days . You will be notified via email when your request is complete.

Request Reduced Tuition from the Registrar's Office

A Filing Fee RCL is authorization for graduate international students who are eligible to enroll in 0 units during their final, graduating quarter, based on filing fee in lieu of registration status.

*Please note that Filling Fee RCL option will be removed starting in Fall 2026 due to recent policy guidance. For more info, please review our latest communication about this policy updates here .

Filing Fee RCL Eligibility

Filing Fee RCL Requirements:

You must be defending your thesis or dissertation or taking a comprehensive exam during your final quarter.

You must meet with your Graduate Coordinator to determine eligibility to pay the filing fee instead of registering in any units.

You must submit your Filing Fee RCL request on iServices by end of the 2nd week of the quarter.

You must apply for F-1 Optional Practical Training or Post-Completion J-1 Academic Training by the end of the 2nd week of the quarter.

You will NOT be eligible for: On-campus employment, including GSR and TAs. Off-campus employment, including CPT (F-1 students) or Pre-Completion Academic Training (J-1 students) . On-campus housing.

On-campus employment, including GSR and TAs.

Off-campus employment, including CPT (F-1 students) or Pre-Completion Academic Training (J-1 students) .

On-campus housing.

You must contact Student Health Services regarding eligibility for voluntary student health insurance.

Filing fee status is limited to one quarter only . If you are unable to complete degree during the filing fee status, you must register during the following quarter and submit a Program Extension Request at least 10 business days before your program end date.

IMPORTANT NOTE: Beginning Fall Quarter 2026 , Filing Fee in lieu of Registration will no longer be an available Reduced Course Load option for international graduate students to maintain their F-1 or J-1 status. Federal visa regulations require active enrollment or specified authorized categories of leave to maintain legal non-immigrant F-1 or J-1 status.  Students who elect to pay a Filing Fee in Lieu of Registration in their graduation term are not enrolled and therefore must pursue one of their grace period options in order to maintain their F-1 or J-1 status.

Request a Filing Fee RCL

Request a Filing Fee RCL from ISEO

Submit a Filing Fee RCL Request in iServices :

Find the Changes to Enrollment category in the left menu. Select Reduced Course Load (RCL) Request . Choose the Filing Fee RCL Request option according to your degree level.

Select Reduced Course Load (RCL) Request .

Choose the Filing Fee RCL Request option according to your degree level.

Submit all of the required eForms. You will receive a confirmation email when your request has been successfully submitted. NOTE: This request will first be sent to your department (graduates) for review, reflected as 'Routed to Third Party' status. Upon approval, it will then be forwarded to ISEO for review, indicated as 'Pending Office Approval' status.

NOTE: This request will first be sent to your department (graduates) for review, reflected as 'Routed to Third Party' status. Upon approval, it will then be forwarded to ISEO for review, indicated as 'Pending Office Approval' status.

ISEO has an average processing time of 10 business days . You will be notified via email when your request is complete.

Paying the filing fee in lieu of registration/tuition fees

Changes to Enrollment

Academic Major Change

Reduced Course Loads (RCLs)

Program Extension

Degree Level Change

Enrollment Outside UC San Diego

Academic Disqualification and Suspension

Visa Status Violations

Regaining Status