Student Services

Changes to Enrollment

Program Extension

Program Extension

If your I-20 (F-1 students) or DS-2019 (J-1 students) will expire soon and you need additional time to complete your academic program, you must apply for a program extension at least 10 days before the program end date listed on your documents. Failure to extend your I-20 or DS-2019 in a timely manner may cause immigration issues.

F-1 Program Extension

In order to be eligible to request a Extension I-20, you must meet all of the following requirements:

You have maintained your current visa status

Have have confirmed with your academic advising office ( College Advising for undergraduate students; or Departmental Advising for graduate students) that you need more time beyond the program end date on your current I-20 to complete your academic requirements and graduate from UC San Diego.

Your program end date is not in the past.

Students must submit their request at least 10 business days before the program end date on their I-20 to maintain status. If you do not have your program end date extended before the current end date of your I-20, ISEO will not be able to process the extension anymore and you will enter your 60 day grace period . Should this situation happen to you, you will need to renew your visa status .

Request an Extension I-20

Find the Changes to Enrollment category in the left menu. Select the Program Extension I-20 Request. Choose the option according to your degree level.

Select the Program Extension I-20 Request.

Choose the option according to your degree level.

Submit all of the required eForms. You will receive a confirmation email when your request has been successfully submitted. NOTE: This request will first be sent to your college (undergraduates) or department (graduates) for review, reflected as 'Routed to Third Party' status. Upon approval, it will then be forwarded to ISEO for review, indicated as 'Pending Office Approval' status.

NOTE: This request will first be sent to your college (undergraduates) or department (graduates) for review, reflected as 'Routed to Third Party' status. Upon approval, it will then be forwarded to ISEO for review, indicated as 'Pending Office Approval' status.

ISEO has an average processing time of 10 business days . You will be notified via email when your request is complete.

J-1 Program Extension

In order to be eligible to request a Extension DS-2019, you must meet all of the following requirements:

You have maintained your current visa status

Have have confirmed with your academic advising office ( College Advising for undergraduate students; or Departmental Advising for graduate students) that you need more time beyond the program end date on your current I-20 to complete your academic requirements and graduate from UC San Diego.

Your program end date is not in the past.

Students must submit their request at least 10 business days before the program end date on their DS-2019 to maintain status. If you do not have your program end date extended before the current end date of your DS-2019, ISEO will not be able to process the extension anymore and you will enter your 30 day grace period . Should this situation happen to you, you will need to renew your visa status .

Request an Extension DS-2019

S submit a Program Extension DS-2019 Request in iServices :

Find the Changes to Enrollment category in the left menu. Select the Program Extension DS-2019 Request . Choose the option according to your degree level.

Select the Program Extension DS-2019 Request .

Choose the option according to your degree level.

Prepare PDF copy of your bank statement(s) or financial support letter(s) to show funding for the period of your extension.

Submit all of the required eForms. You will receive a confirmation email when your request has been successfully submitted. NOTE: This request will first be sent to your college (undergraduates), department (graduates), or program coordinator (non-degree) for review, reflected as 'Routed to Third Party' status. Upon approval, it will then be forwarded to ISEO for review, indicated as 'Pending Office Approval' status.

NOTE: This request will first be sent to your college (undergraduates), department (graduates), or program coordinator (non-degree) for review, reflected as 'Routed to Third Party' status. Upon approval, it will then be forwarded to ISEO for review, indicated as 'Pending Office Approval' status.

ISEO has an average processing time of 10 business days . You will be notified via email when your request is complete.

Changes to Enrollment

Academic Major Change

Reduced Course Loads (RCLs)

Program Extension

Degree Level Change

Enrollment Outside UC San Diego

Academic Disqualification and Suspension

Visa Status Violations

Regaining Status