Student Services

Working in the U.S.

J-1 On-Campus Employment

J-1 On Campus Employment

Authorization Requirements and Eligibility

On-Campus Employment Authorization:

On-campus employers must provide a direct service to the campus community (students, scholars, staff, etc.).

Students must receive work authorization from ISEO through the J-1 On-Campus Employment Authorization Request in iServices for:

Any on-campus paid positions, such as assistantships (TA, GSR) and fellowships, and other paid positions not related to your course of study.

Any on-campus unpaid internships.

You do not need authorization for:

Volunteering positions, defined as donating time with an organization whose primary purpose is charitable or humanitarian in nature, without remuneration or any other type of compensation.

You are in good academic standing.

You continue to engage in a full course of study, except for official school breaks and the student's annual vacation. Note that employment extending past the program end date of your current DS-2019 cannot be considered on-campus employment and requires post-completion Academic Training (AT) employment authorization .

Note that employment extending past the program end date of your current DS-2019 cannot be considered on-campus employment and requires post-completion Academic Training (AT) employment authorization .

You have received authorization from ISEO for the specific employment in advance and in writing.

Your on-campus employment is limited to maximum of 20 hours per week (or 50% time) while school is in session. It can be full-time during official school breaks and the student's annual vacation.

On-Campus Assistantships or Fellowships:

If your employment is pursuant to the terms of a scholarship, fellowship or assistantship, you are required to obtain prior work authorization from ISEO. Please follow the application guidelines outlined below.

Under current Department of State guidance released on July 10, 2023, UC San Diego J-1 students who are enrolled at UC San Diego are eligible to work on a limited hybrid schedule with "on-campus employment". However, they may not work remotely (from a residential address) for their employer/organizations for more than 40% per week (e.g., no more than two days out of a five-day work week).

Request Authorization from ISEO

J-1 students who are offered on-campus employment must request authorization from ISEO. Authorization cannot be given retroactively, so plan accordingly and submit your request at least 10 business days prior to beginning employment.

Submit a J-1 On Campus Employment Authorization Request in iServices :

Find the Working in the U.S. category in the left menu. Select the J-1 On-Campus Employment Authorization Request .

Select the J-1 On-Campus Employment Authorization Request .

Prepare a PDF copy of your job offer letter from your on-campus employer. Sample job offer letter Letter to your employer

Sample job offer letter

Letter to your employer

You will receive a confirmation email when your request has been successfully submitted.

ISEO has an average processing time of 10 business days . You will be notified via email when your request is complete.

Social Security Number:

If you also need to get a Social Security Number (SSN), an SSA Application Support Letter will also be prepared and uploaded as a part of this request. See our Social Security Number page for more information on how to get an SSN.

On-Campus Work Authorization Renewal

Authorization can be given for up to 12 months at a time maximum, but only for the specified dates on your job offer letter. If you need to extend beyond the end date of your current authorization, then submit a new J-1 On Campus Employment Authorization Request in iServices at least 10 business days before your current authorization letter expires.

Before your current on-campus work authorization expires, allow yourself enough time to:

Obtain an updated job offer letter from your employer. Sample job offer letter Letter to your employer

Sample job offer letter

Letter to your employer

Obtain updated J-1 On Campus Employment Authorization through iServices

On-campus work authorization cannot be backdated, and starting employment without receiving appropriate authorization could have a negative impact on your J-1 status.

Working in the U.S.

How to Find Employers

J-1 On-Campus Work

J-1 Academic Training (AT)

J-1 Volunteering and Unpaid Internships

F-1 On-Campus Work

F-1 Off-Campus Work (CPT)

F-1 Optional Practical Training (OPT)

F-1 Volunteering and Unpaid Internships

F-1 Economic Hardship

F-1 International Organizations