Student Services

Working in the U.S.

F-1 Optional Practical Training (OPT)

Pre-Completion OPT

F-1 Pre-Completion OPT

Optional Practical Training (OPT) is a form of training, often paid, that directly relates to your program of study. You can apply for OPT during your program of study, which is known as pre-completion OPT, or after you finish your program of study, known as post-completion OPT. This page discusses pre-completion OPT. For information on post-graduation OPT work authorization, visit our Initial OPT page .

Options for Pre-Completion Work Authorization

There are several types of work authorization for F-1 students. F-1 students maintaining status may be eligible for on-campus employment or volunteering and unpaid internships . For off-campus, paid employment, F-1 students may apply for Curricular Practical Training (CPT) from ISEO or Pre-Completion OPT from USCIS.

CPT (Curricular Practical Training)

Pre-Completion OPT

Eligibility: Must have been lawfully enrolled on a full time basis for at least one academic year (3 quarters) on the same SEVIS number. Enrollment in a CPT-eligible course is required (or Summer Cooperative Education Agreement for graduate students). A job offer is required in order to apply for CPT. Authorization: Authorized by ISEO. No application fee. ISEO processing time is 10 business days. Limitations: Part time CPT during the academic quarter; full time CPT during academic breaks (or during the quarter if advanced to candidacy). Not eligible for OPT if the student exceeds 12 months of full time CPT (part-time does not count). Go to our cpt.ucsd.edu page to learn more about CPT.

Eligibility: Must have been lawfully enrolled on a full time basis for at least one academic year (3 quarters) on the same SEVIS number. Enrollment in a CPT-eligible course is required (or Summer Cooperative Education Agreement for graduate students). A job offer is required in order to apply for CPT.

Must have been lawfully enrolled on a full time basis for at least one academic year (3 quarters) on the same SEVIS number.

Enrollment in a CPT-eligible course is required (or Summer Cooperative Education Agreement for graduate students).

A job offer is required in order to apply for CPT.

Authorization: Authorized by ISEO. No application fee. ISEO processing time is 10 business days.

Authorized by ISEO.

No application fee.

ISEO processing time is 10 business days.

Limitations: Part time CPT during the academic quarter; full time CPT during academic breaks (or during the quarter if advanced to candidacy). Not eligible for OPT if the student exceeds 12 months of full time CPT (part-time does not count).

Part time CPT during the academic quarter; full time CPT during academic breaks (or during the quarter if advanced to candidacy).

Not eligible for OPT if the student exceeds 12 months of full time CPT (part-time does not count).

Go to our cpt.ucsd.edu page to learn more about CPT.

Eligbility: Must have been lawfully enrolled on a full time basis for at least one academic year (3 quarters) on the same SEVIS number. No enrollment in course for credit required. A job offer is not required in order to apply for OPT. Authorization: Authorized by USCIS. I-765 application fee to USCIS. USCIS average processing time is 3-5 months. Limitations: Part time OPT during the academic quarter; full time OPT during academic breaks (or during the quarter if advanced to candidacy). Part-time pre-completion OPT deducts at half the rate from post-completion OPT; full time pre-completion deducts at full rate (For example: 2 months of part time pre-completion OPT deducts 1 month from post-completion OPT; 4 months of full time pre-completion OPT deducts 4 months from post-completion OPT).

Eligbility: Must have been lawfully enrolled on a full time basis for at least one academic year (3 quarters) on the same SEVIS number. No enrollment in course for credit required. A job offer is not required in order to apply for OPT.

Must have been lawfully enrolled on a full time basis for at least one academic year (3 quarters) on the same SEVIS number.

No enrollment in course for credit required.

A job offer is not required in order to apply for OPT.

Authorization: Authorized by USCIS. I-765 application fee to USCIS. USCIS average processing time is 3-5 months.

Authorized by USCIS.

I-765 application fee to USCIS.

USCIS average processing time is 3-5 months.

Limitations: Part time OPT during the academic quarter; full time OPT during academic breaks (or during the quarter if advanced to candidacy). Part-time pre-completion OPT deducts at half the rate from post-completion OPT; full time pre-completion deducts at full rate (For example: 2 months of part time pre-completion OPT deducts 1 month from post-completion OPT; 4 months of full time pre-completion OPT deducts 4 months from post-completion OPT).

Part time OPT during the academic quarter; full time OPT during academic breaks (or during the quarter if advanced to candidacy).

Part-time pre-completion OPT deducts at half the rate from post-completion OPT; full time pre-completion deducts at full rate (For example: 2 months of part time pre-completion OPT deducts 1 month from post-completion OPT; 4 months of full time pre-completion OPT deducts 4 months from post-completion OPT).

Eligibility for Pre-Completion OPT

Eligibility Criteria for Pre-Completion OPT:

You must have been enrolled on a full-time basis for at least one academic year on the same SEVIS number.

Your I-20 should have a completion date beyond your requested pre-completion OPT end date.

You must be currently pursuing your degree. Pre-completion OPT cannot be authorized after completing your program.

You must be enrolled full-time during the term OPT is requested and while on pre-completion OPT, or have an approved Reduced Course Load authorization .

During the OPT period, you must maintain F-1 student status.You are limited to 20 hours per week of pre-completion OPT (part-time OPT) while school is in session. You can apply for full-time OPT authorization during your annual vacation (usually in the Summer) and during other official school breaks, however this requires a separate application from part-time OPT.

Employment Requirements:

Employment must be directly related to your major field of study.

The employment can be paid or unpaid.

Application Window:

An applicant for pre-completion OPT can file a Form I-765 with USCIS "up to 90 days before being enrolled for one full academic year, provided that the period of employment will not start prior to the completion of the full academic year." This would allow first-year students to obtain pre-completion OPT in the summer after their first year

Meet with an Advisor

You must meet with an ISEO advisor prior to submitting an I-20 request. After you receive new I-20 reflecting your OPT endorsement, you can then follow the instructions below.

Submit your Online OPT Application to USCIS:

In order to compile a complete OPT Application, make sure to carefully follow instructions in these guides:

OPT Application Guide : This guide lists all documents required in the OPT Application

Form I-765 Guide : This guide is also meant for post-completion OPT; the main difference for pre-completion OPT is #27 on page 4 of the I-765 should be ( c ) (3) (A) instead of ( c ) (3) (B) for post-completion OPT.

Important Reminders:

USCIS must receive your OPT Application no later than 30 days after we issue your OPT I-20

USCIS must receive your OPT Application within your 5-month eligibility window: No earlier than 90 days before the end of your program completion date. No later than 60 days after the end of your program completion date.

No earlier than 90 days before the end of your program completion date.

No later than 60 days after the end of your program completion date.

If filing online close to any deadlines , note that USCIS operates on Universal Coordinated Time (UTC) which is 7 hours ahead of Pacific Standard Time (PST). Ensure all applications are complete and submitted before 4:59 PM PST of the current day in order for it to be considered as submitted on that day.

For USCIS form details, including filing tips, direct filing address (paper forms), and instructions, visit the USCIS website .

F-1 Optional Practical Training (OPT)

Cap Gap Extension

Pre-Completion OPT

Frequently Asked Questions