Student Services

Starting a New Program

Request the Form I-20

Request the Form I-20

The Form I-20 is the Certificate of Eligibility to gain and maintain F-1 student status to study in a degree program at UC San Diego. The information on this page is relevant for:

New F-1 Students: newly admitted degree-seeking students who are currently outside of the U.S. and need to apply for an F-1 visa to undertake their studies.

F-1 SEVIS Transfers: newly admitted degree-seeking students who are currently in F-1 status via another U.S. school (recently graduated or on OPT), and need to transfer their SEVIS Record to UC San Diego.

Attention, Summer Session Visiting Students: If you will only be enrolling with UC San Diego for the Summer Session, and will not be enrolling in a UC San Diego degree program, please visit ISEO’s Summer Session Visiting Students webpage for instructions on requesting your Form I-20.

Do not schedule your visa interview appointment until you have received your UC San Diego Form I-20.

ISEO strongly recommends you wait to invest financially in your U.S. flights and accommodations until after you have obtained your F-1 visa. Your ability to seek entry to the U.S. is dependent on having obtained both your Form I-20 and your F-1 visa.

Review our F-1/J-1 Visa Process Overview for more information.

Check out our Pre-Arrival Webinars!

Learn how to request your Form I-20 by watching ISEO's pre-arrival webinars:

How to Request Your Form I-20

SEVIS Transfer Process for F-1 Students

Beginning the Form I-20 Process

You are eligible to request the Form I-20 from UC San Diego from if:

You have been admitted to a UC San Diego degree program; AND

You have accepted your offer of admission in your Applicant Portal; AND

You meet the eligibility requirements for the Form I-20 and F-1 visa.

Visit our F-1 and J-1 Visa Eligibility webpage to learn more.

You must submit your Form I-20 request within the required timeframe (see below).

Note : ISEO processes requests in the order in which they were received to ensure equity for all new admit applicants. We strongly encourage you to submit as early as possible as the visa process can take several months.

Term of Admission Fall Quarter (September start) Winter Quarter (January start) Summer Term (June, July, or August start) Earliest you can s ubmit your Form I-20 Request December 1 September 1 December 1 Latest you can submit your I-20 request* August 1 December 1 May 1

Term of Admission

Term of Admission

Fall Quarter (September start)

(September start)

Winter Quarter (January start)

Summer Term (June, July, or August start)

(June, July, or August start)

Earliest you can s ubmit your Form I-20 Request

Earliest you can s ubmit your Form I-20 Request

Latest you can submit your I-20 request*

Latest you can submit your I-20 request*

*Requests for the Form I-20 may be accepted after these dates; however, timely issuance cannot be guaranteed. It is your responsibility to submit your Form I-20 request by the relevant date above .

Document Requirements

Prepare the following documents to submit as part of your Form I-20 Request. Please note that most delays in issuing the Form I-20 occur when students do not upload sufficient and acceptable documents as required. Take care to ensure your documents meet the stated requirements:

Valid Passport. Prepare to upload a color copy of the biographical page of your valid passport. Your passport’s expiration date must be at least 6 months after the start of your UC San Diego program.

Required Funding Documents: Prepare to upload copies of acceptable financial documents proving you meet the Form I-20 funding requirements. Review our Funding Requirements webpage to learn what minimum amount of funding you are required to show and which financial documents you can use.

Review our Funding Requirements webpage to learn what minimum amount of funding you are required to show and which financial documents you can use.

Dependent documents: If you plan to have your legal spouse and/or children under the age of 21 accompany you to the United States on the F-2 dependent visa, you must also provide valid passport(s) and proof of funding for each of your dependents. Note : While ISEO does not require proof of your relationship to each dependent, we highly recommend you prepare official marriage certificate (for spouse) and/or birth certificates (for children), as these may be requested at the time of your visa interview.

Note : While ISEO does not require proof of your relationship to each dependent, we highly recommend you prepare official marriage certificate (for spouse) and/or birth certificates (for children), as these may be requested at the time of your visa interview.

SEVIS Transfer Students only: If you are currently in F-1 status via another U.S. school (recently graduated or on OPT): Prepare to upload a copy of your most recently issued Form I-20 (pages 1 and 2). Prepare to provide the specific date (“SEVIS Release Date”) that your current school will release your Active SEVIS record to UC San Diego. For more information on the F-1 SEVIS Transfer process , see here .

Prepare to upload a copy of your most recently issued Form I-20 (pages 1 and 2).

Prepare to provide the specific date (“SEVIS Release Date”) that your current school will release your Active SEVIS record to UC San Diego. For more information on the F-1 SEVIS Transfer process , see here .

Sponsored Students only – F-1 Support Letter from Sponsor: If your primary source of funding is a Third-Party Sponsor (such as a government, an employer, or an international organization), and you wish to apply for the F-1 visa, your Sponsor must provide you with a letter explaining why the F-1 visa is the appropriate student visa category for your objectives and indicating their support of your F-1 visa application. Prepare to upload a copy of this letter.

Request your Form I-20 in iServices

iServices ( iServices.ucsd.edu ) is ISEO's document and service request portal for international students. Review ISEO's iServices Instructions for Students page for helpful information on accessing, submitting requests through, and troubleshooting with, iServices.

To access iServices:

Login to iServices ( iServices.ucsd.edu ) .* Summer start students: If you were admitted to a Summer start program (June, July, August), log into iServices using your Active Directory credentials ( not Student SSO). Fall start students: After you accept your offer of admission, you will receive an email from ISEO inviting you to apply for your Form I-20. Look for an email with the subject line “Welcome! Immigration Information for Newly Admitted International Students” . While you wait for this email, you can gather all required supporting documentation (see above) in preparation for your application.

Login to iServices ( iServices.ucsd.edu ) .* Summer start students: If you were admitted to a Summer start program (June, July, August), log into iServices using your Active Directory credentials ( not Student SSO). Fall start students: After you accept your offer of admission, you will receive an email from ISEO inviting you to apply for your Form I-20. Look for an email with the subject line “Welcome! Immigration Information for Newly Admitted International Students” . While you wait for this email, you can gather all required supporting documentation (see above) in preparation for your application.

Summer start students: If you were admitted to a Summer start program (June, July, August), log into iServices using your Active Directory credentials ( not Student SSO).

Fall start students: After you accept your offer of admission, you will receive an email from ISEO inviting you to apply for your Form I-20. Look for an email with the subject line “Welcome! Immigration Information for Newly Admitted International Students” . While you wait for this email, you can gather all required supporting documentation (see above) in preparation for your application.

To submit your Form I-20 request:

In the iServices menu, click Starting a New Program at UC San Diego .

Select the appropriate request based on your situation: New Admit Form I-20 Request if you will begin your degree program with UC San Diego in F-1 visa status. This includes SEVIS Transfers. New Admit Change of Status to F-1 or J-1 Request if you are currently in the U.S. in a different non-immigrant visa status (i.e. F-2, H-4, L-2, etc.) with intention to apply to change to F-1 status with USCIS without departing the U.S. If you are in the U.S. and wish to change to F-1 status by travel, do not use this request.

New Admit Form I-20 Request if you will begin your degree program with UC San Diego in F-1 visa status. This includes SEVIS Transfers.

New Admit Change of Status to F-1 or J-1 Request if you are currently in the U.S. in a different non-immigrant visa status (i.e. F-2, H-4, L-2, etc.) with intention to apply to change to F-1 status with USCIS without departing the U.S. If you are in the U.S. and wish to change to F-1 status by travel, do not use this request.

Complete all required eforms within the request.

Submit the request by submitting the “Submission Confirmation” eform last.

When you have successfully submitted the request, the status of your request will be "Pending Office Approval."

Processing Time for I-20 Issuance

If you have submitted a Form I-20 request, you will receive email confirmation of your submission. ISEO processes Form I‑20 requests on a first‑come, first‑served basis. During peak season, it can take up to approximately three weeks to issue your Form I‑20 once we receive a complete request.

If your request is missing any items or does not meet the requirements, ISEO will follow up with you via email. Incomplete requests require additional follow‑up and will delay document issuance. ISEO works to support all students as quickly as possible. However, it is ultimately the student’s responsibility to submit a complete and accurate New Admit I-20 request.

SEVIS Transfer Students: Standard processing time begins once your complete and accurate New Admit I-20 request is submitted in iServices, and your prior institution has released your SEVIS record to UC San Diego.

ISEO does not expedite New Admit Form I-20 requests under any circumstances.

Receiving Your Form I-20

Your Form I-20 will be sent to your UC San Diego email once it has been issued. You will also be able to download it from the Documents section of iServices .

Review your Form I-20 for accuracy. If everything looks accurate, print and sign it. The Form I-20 must be signed with a wet signature in blue ink. If you are under the age of 18, you must also have your parent/guardian sign the form.

Review the following on your Form I-20 for accuracy:

SEVIS ID Number: Your SEVIS ID number is in the top left corner of your Form I-20, and starts with the letter "N". Your SEVIS ID is your unique F-1 status ID number. SEVIS Transfer Students: If you transferred your SEVIS record to UC San Diego, the SEVIS ID number on your UC San Diego I-20 should be the same as your previous institution's I-20.

SEVIS Transfer Students: If you transferred your SEVIS record to UC San Diego, the SEVIS ID number on your UC San Diego I-20 should be the same as your previous institution's I-20.

Biographical Information: Confirm that the biographical information matches the legal information listed in your passport.

Program Information: Program Level : Bachelor’s, Master’s, Doctoral Major & CIP Code : Although some CIP Codes may sound different from the name of your major/field of study as listed within TritonLink , it does not mean the code is incorrect. A full list of UC San Diego major/field of study codes and corresponding CIP codes can be reviewed here . Classifications are not determined by ISEO. Program Start Date : Reflects the start date of your program. You are expected to arrive to UC San Diego by this date.

Program Level : Bachelor’s, Master’s, Doctoral

Major & CIP Code : Although some CIP Codes may sound different from the name of your major/field of study as listed within TritonLink , it does not mean the code is incorrect. A full list of UC San Diego major/field of study codes and corresponding CIP codes can be reviewed here . Classifications are not determined by ISEO.

Program Start Date : Reflects the start date of your program. You are expected to arrive to UC San Diego by this date.

Funding: Ensure your funding sources are accurate.

DSO Signature: Ensure there is a valid signature from an ISEO Staff Member (“Designated School Official”) on the first page.

If you need to edit any information on your Form I-20, follow instructions here .

Applying for your F-1 Visa

Once you have received your Form I-20, follow these instructions to apply for your F-1 visa.

Frequently Asked Questions

Have questions about the Form I-20 and immigration process? Review ISEO’s Advising for New F-1 and J-1 Students.

RETURN TO iNEWSTUDENTS HOMEPAGE

Starting a New Program

Visa Process Overview

Request the Form I-20

Request the Form DS-2019

Advising Resources

Immigration Resources

Additional Resources