Join us at UC San Diego

We offer a wide variety of academic and professional graduate degree programs and we welcome talented prospective students from across the nation and around the world to apply for admission.

begin your application

A Program for You

Find the program that is right for you.

See the registration fees for the current quarter.

Before You Apply

Catch a glimpse of life as a UC San Diego grad student

Everything You Need to Know About the Application Process

Discover the Numerous Opportunities for Financial Support

Resources for Prospective Graduate Students

Interested in applying to graduate school at UC San Diego? The Office of Outreach, Access, Recruitment and Retention (OAR²) offers resources that support the development, retention, and success of graduate students at UC San Diego. Click below to learn more.

Already Admitted?

Find out the next steps after accepting admission.

Admitted Students

Contact Admissions

gradadmissions@ucsd.edu

University of California San Diego Student Services Center, 4th Floor 9500 Gilman Drive #0003 La Jolla, CA 92093

Admitted students: If you have attended and earned a degree from an institution outside of the United States, you are required to complete and submit a Course-by-Course evaluation, as detailed in your applicant status portal. We are unable to provide exceptions to this requirement.

Non Discrimination Statement : In accordance with applicable Federal and State law and University policy, the University of California does not discriminate, or grant preferences, on the basis of race, color, national origin, religion, sex, disability, and/or other protected categories. More information about Proposition 209 can be found here . More information about the University of California Anti-Discrimination Policy can be found here.

Grad Ed & Postdoc Affairs

Admissions Prospective Students Degree Programs Requirements Admitted Students Admission FAQ Compliance/Health and Safety Information

Prospective Students

Admitted Students

Compliance/Health and Safety Information

Financial Support

Postdoctoral Affairs