Student Services

Starting a New Program

Additional Resources

New Exchange (Non-Degree) Students

New Exchange (Non-Degree) Students

The International Services and Engagement Office (ISEO) is here to assist new F‑1 and J‑1 students with immigration matters. But we know there are a lot of things to prepare as you plan for your studies and life at UC San Diego as an exchange student ! Questions about housing, booking classes , or other campus services are best directed to the offices that manage those areas. ISEO has put together this page as a resource to connect you with other campus services and support your onboarding at UC San Diego.

ISEO Onboarding Guides to Help You Get Started

Welcome Guide : This guide is filled with tips and information designed to help you navigate through your first steps as a new international student. It includes a helpful checklist to you keep you on track in your journey to UC San Diego.

Surf Check : A surf check is an action done by surfers to survey conditions at a location and get an understanding of what the surf will be like. Each surfer may look for different things; some surfers may be looking for huge waves while some may just be looking for windless classic waves. Just like a surf check, ISEO will be providing the necessary knowledge and experience to help you navigate your way to an exemplary experience at UC San Diego. From what to pack when coming to the United States to the best eateries on campus, Surf Check will cover everything you need to know!

Health and Immunization Requirements

The University of California is committed to protecting the health and well-being of our students. All incoming students are REQUIRED to obtain certain vaccines and undergo Tuberculosis testing. Failure to meet these requirements by the stated due dates may result in the student receiving registration holds.

To complete your Health Requirements and review important deadlines, review the Student Health Services website .

QUESTIONS? If you have questions regarding your Health Requirements, please contact Student Health Services (SHS) by activating your MyStudentChart account ( see instructions ). Once activated, login to MyStudentChart and use the “Ask-A-Nurse" messaging feature to communicate with the SHS Nursing team.

* Note : Exchange students who participate in exchange at UC San Diego during only the Summer Session, are not required to complete the health and immunization requirements.

Health Insurance Required

J-1 Exchange Visitors are required by the U.S. Department of State to have health insurance with specific minimum coverage for themselves and any accompanying dependents in J-2 status for the entire time that they are in the United States as exchange visitors. Failure to maintain valid health insurance at any point during the visitor's stay in the U.S is considered a violation of J-1 visa status.

In addition, the University of California considers health insurance a mandatory non-academic condition for enrollment at UC San Diego. During the academic school year, the university offers students the UC Student Health Insurance Plan (UC SHIP) to satisfy both the university's and the U.S. government's health insurance requirements.

Beginning your exchange program in Fall, Winter, or Spring:

Exchange students who begin their exchange participation at UC San Diego during the Fall, Winter, or Spring terms will be automatically enrolled in the UC Student Health Insurance Plan (UC SHIP) . Students may request to waive out of UC SHIP by submitting proof of alternative comparable health insurance by the deadline set by Student Health & Well-Being.

QUESTIONS? If you have questions about enrolling in or waiving UC SHIP, please contact Student Health & Well-Being at ship3@ucsd.edu .

Summer Session exchange students:

Exchange students who participate in exchange at UC San Diego during only the Summer Session, are not eligible for UC SHIP and must utilize UC San Diego's health insurance partner, Gallagher , to meet their university and U.S. government health insurance requirement. Summer-only exchange students may either 1) enroll in Gallagher's health insurance plan; or 2) waive coverage with Gallagher by submitting proof of alternative comparable health insurance.

To enroll in Gallagher's health insurance plan, visit the Gallagher Visiting Scholar Benefit Plan Portal and select "Begin Enrollment". Follow the instructions to complete the enrollment process.

To waive coverage with Gallagher and submit proof of alternative comparable insurance, visit the Gallagher Visiting Scholar Benefit Plan Portal and select "Waive Coverage". Follow the instructions to complete the waiver process.

QUESTIONS? If you have questions about enrolling in or waiving Gallagher, utilize their Contact Us resources .

12 Units per Quarter Required to Maintain Visa Status

Per U.S. federal regulations, all exchange students are required to enroll full-time during the academic school year (Fall, Winter, and Spring quarters*). Full-time enrollment is considered 12 units or more per quarter. Ensure that by each quarter's "Deadline for all students to add or re-enroll" as posted on the Enrollment and Registration Calendar (see next section), you are enrolled in at least 12 units!

Exchange students are also required to enroll full-time during their FIRST quarter. If you will be starting your exchange program during the Summer quarter, then you must enroll full-time during the Summer quarter. Full-time enrollment during Summer quarter is considered at least 6 units PER SUMMER SESSION.

*The academic school year is the Fall, Winter, and Spring quarters. Summer quarter is traditionally a vacation term for international and exchange students, UNLESS it is the student’s first term of enrollment. If the Summer term is NOT the student’s first term of enrollment, then Summer quarter enrollment is not required.

Important Enrollment Dates

Review the relevant Enrollment and Registration Calendar to take note of important enrollment dates. Exchange students should note the following:

Schedule of Classes and enrollment appointment times available – The date that course offerings for the upcoming term become available for viewing . This is also the date by which students will be notified of their enrollment appointment times. Your enrollment appointment times will be emailed to your UC San Diego email .

Enrollment begins for all continuing students – The date enrollment for the upcoming term opens. Exchange students will receive an enrollment appointment time for a specific day and time during this week.

Deadline for all students to add or re-enroll in classes if canceled for non-payment – This is the deadline to add classes and is the end of Week 2 of the quarter. Students still waitlisted as of this date will be unable to enroll in the waitlisted course(s) and must find an alternative course(s). Exchange students must meet the full-time enrollment requirement (12 units) of their visa status by this date.

Prepare for Enrollment: What to Know about Course Registration

Enrollment in or availability of specific courses is not guaranteed. You should have several alternative course options prepared to ensure you can meet the full-time enrollment requirement (12 units) of your visa status. Remember to also confirm with your home university advisor that the UC San Diego courses you select meet your home university's program requirements.

Some courses may have pre-requisites or enrollment restrictions that require you to apply for authorization to enroll. Pre-requisite and course restriction information for each course is available at the Schedule of Classes and the UC San Diego General Catalog .

Questions about enrollment? Contact your College’s Academic Advising office. Your College’s Academic Advising Office is your point of contact for enrollment-related questions. For information on how to contact your College’s academic advising staff, visit the College’s website and locate their academic advising webpage. Not sure which College you belong to? Reference your official UC San Diego acceptance notification .

ISEO strongly recommends you wait to invest financially in housing until you have obtained your Form DS-2019 and J-1 visa.

On-Campus Housing

On-campus housing at UC San Diego is limited and is not guaranteed. Applying for on-campus housing does not guarantee that you will be offered a space.

Beginning your exchange program in Fall, Winter, or Spring:

Exchange students who begin their exchange participation at UC San Diego during the Fall, Winter, or Spring terms may apply to live on-campus at I-House and/or join the Undergraduate Housing Waitlist .

QUESTIONS? Contact Undergraduate Housing at ucsdhousing@ucsd.edu .

Summer Session exchange students:

Exchange students who participate in exchange at UC San Diego during only the Summer Session, may apply to live on-campus via the Undergraduate Housing Traditional Summer Program .

QUESTIONS? Contact Undergraduate Housing at summerhousing@ucsd.edu .

Off-Campus Housing

New Student Orientations

REQUIRED - iTriton: Online International Student Orientation

All incoming F-1 and J-1 students must complete ISEO’s mandatory online international student orientation, iTriton. To learn more about iTriton, including how to access it, visit iTriton.ucsd.edu .

Fall 2026 new students: iTriton must be completed by September 1 or your U.S. arrival, whichever is earlier.

REQUIRED – SHAPE Training

SHAPE Training through the Office for the Prevention of Harassment and Discrimination (OPHD) is an online program that introduces you to our student community and your role in maintaining a welcoming campus environment. You will receive an email to your UCSD inbox once you have been assigned the training. Students who do not complete the training may receive a registration hold on their account. Learn more, including due dates for completion, by visiting the SHAPE Training website .

HIGHLY RECOMMENDED – ISEO's iOrientation Events

ISEO is excited to meet you! ISEO’s iOrientation will take place in the week(s) leading up to the start of the school year, and is your chance to review the content presented in your iTriton Online Orientation. iOrientation is open to ALL new international students, and it is free of cost. For more information, visit iOrientation.ucsd.edu .

Paying Your Student Account

Ensure that you are up to date with your student account. Review due dates and learn how to pay your bill .

QUESTIONS? If you have questions regarding payments toward your Student Account, please contact Student Financial Solutions .

Transportation at UC San Diego

Banking and Personal Finance

Cell Phone Service

Major U.S. cell phone service providers include Verizon Wireless , T-Mobile , AT&T , and Sprint . Other student-focused providers include CampusSIMs and StudentSIMs .

Family Resources

Campus Directory and Map

Once you arrive to campus, familiarize yourself with your new home! Visit Maps.ucsd.edu to search for campus locations, classrooms, college and department advising, dining, and more!

CONTACT INFORMATION

General Campus Resources

Transcripts & Admissions Letters (Undergraduate Students)

Office of Admissions

https://admissions.ucsd.edu/contact/

Transcripts & Admissions Letters (Graduate Students)

Graduate Admissions

https://grad.ucsd.edu/admissions/admitted-students/index.html

Immunization and Health Requirements

Student Health Services

https://studenthealth.ucsd.edu/resources/health-requirements/index.html

Health Insurance

UCSD Student Health Insurance (SHIP)

https://studenthealth.ucsd.edu/resources/health-requirements/index.html

Paying Tuition & Fees

Student Financial Solutions (Student Billing Office)

https://students.ucsd.edu/finances/billing-payment/index.html

Student Financial Solutions (Campus Card Office)

https://sfs.ucsd.edu/campus-cards/index.html

International Student Orientation

International Services and Engagement Office (ISEO)

https://iorientation.ucsd.edu

Move-In/On Campus Housing

Housing, Dining & Hospitality

https://hdh.ucsd.edu/

Academic Advising & Classes

Enrolling in Classes/Using WebReg

Undergraduate College (Undergraduate Students) Graduate Coordinators & Departments (Graduate Students)

Undergraduate College (Undergraduate Students)

Graduate Coordinators & Departments (Graduate Students)

https://students.ucsd.edu/academics/enroll/

Academic Advising (Undergraduate Students)

Undergraduate College (Undergraduate Students)

https://students.ucsd.edu/academics/advising/

Academic Advising for Graduate Students (Graduate Students)

Graduate Coordinators & Departments (Graduate Students)

Contact home department

Books & School Supplies

UC San Diego Bookstore

https://ucsandiegobookstore.com/

Taking Classes in the Summer

https://students.ucsd.edu/academics/advising/

Immigration Resources

F-1/J-1 Status and My Immigration Documents

International Services and Engagement Office (ISEO)

https://iseo.ucsd.edu

Traveling to Mexico/ General Travel Guidelines

International Services and Engagement Office (ISEO)

https://iTravel.ucsd.edu

Working On/Off-Campus

International Services and Engagement Office (ISEO)

https://iEmployment.ucsd.edu

Certificates of Arrival/Attendance and Learning Agreements

RETURN TO iNEWSTUDENTS HOMEPAGE

Additional Resources

New Undergraduate (Bachelor’s) Students

New Graduate (Master’s and PhD) Students

New Exchange (Non-Degree) Students

New Summer Session Visiting Students

Summer Session Visiting Program for Alumni

Sponsored Students

Prospective Students