Financial Support

Academic Students Employees (ASEs) and Graduate Student Researchers (GSRs)

Academic Student Employees

Academic Student Employees

All information about the agreement between the Regents of the University of California and the International Untion, United Automobile, Aerospace and Agricultural Implement Workers of America (UAW), AFL-CIO Academic Student Employees Unit can be found on this page.

The UAW/ASE Contract with the UC System is available for your review.

ASE Appointment Notification Letters & Procedures

Appointment Letters are required for all persons hired in ASE positions. The Templates for these letters are:

TA Appointment Letter Template

Graduate Tutor and Reader Appointment Letter Template

Undergraduate Tutor and Reader Appointment Letter Template

Non-student Appointment Letter Template

The Supplemental Information/List of Duties Form must be given to Academic Student Employees.  Information about this in Article 2, section B of the contract.

Associate-in-lieu Description of Duties

TA Description of Duties

Reader Description of Duties

Tutor Description of Duties

ASE Membership Form Disbursement & Procedure

There is a contractual requirement for UC San Diego to distribute the UAW/ASE Membership Election Form. A union membership election form shall be provided to all new ASEs at the same time as the ASE is provided the new employee payroll information (e.g. W-2 and I-9 forms). In the event that an ASE has already completed new employee information (e.g. W-2 and I-9 forms), the University shall present a UAW Local 2865 Membership Election Form at the time the ASE hires into the bargaining unit.

The Membership Election Form is available as Appendix E of the UAW/ASE contract located on the UCOP UAW/ASE contract website:

https://ucnet.universityofcalifornia.edu/labor/bargaining-units/bx/contract.html

Hiring Units may request copies of the Membership Election Form from the Graduate Division.  It is also permitted for hiring units to make copies of the form for distribution.

When the Membership Election Form is provided to the ASE, a MEF Acknowledgement Form should be completed. The MEF Acknowledgement Form must be collected by hiring unit personnel and forwarded to Labor Relations as described below.

Note : Current law limits the University’s communications with represented employees about union membership . You should not communicate with the employee about the Membership Election Form, or about dues or fees.This is a union-provided form and all questions about the form should be directed to the union (their contact information is on the bottom of the form).

Employees should return completed Membership Election Forms directly to the union as described at the bottom of the form. Alternatively, forms can be returned to the department/program hiring administrator. Any original signed forms received by the University must be returned to the UAW within 10 business/working days of receipt. Completed UAW Membership Election Forms received by the department/program and all MEF Acknowledgement Forms should be sent to Labor Relations via campus mail as follows:

Labor Relations Mail Code 0922

Department/program contacts should send any completed Membership Election Forms they receive to Labor Relations as soon as they receive them rather than wait for all expected forms to be returned. Always include a cover sheet in the envelope indicating the name of the person sending the forms.

Employment Files

Contact Information

If you have any questions about ASE Procedures and Information, please contact:

Jaime High Labor Relations Advisor (858) 534-4136 jhigh@ucsd.edu

Financial Support Unit Division of Graduate Education and Postdoctoral Affairs grademployment@ucsd.edu

UAW Local Address UAW 2865 4370 La Jolla Village Dr. #400 San Diego, CA 92122-1251

Contact the Financial Support Unit via the Student Support Portal in Services & Support.

Non Discrimination Statement : In accordance with applicable Federal and State law and University policy, the University of California does not discriminate, or grant preferences, on the basis of race, color, national origin, religion, sex, disability, and/or other protected categories. More information about Proposition 209 can be found here . More information about the University of California Anti-Discrimination Policy can be found here.

Academic Students Employees (ASEs) and Graduate Student Researchers (GSRs)

Academic Student Employees

Types of Academic Student Employment

International Graduate Student Employment:  Teaching Assistants

Fee Payment Information for Academic Student Employees

New Employee Orientation