Financial Support

Financial Support

Below you will find helpful links to assist with navigating graduate student financial support at UC San Diego. Whether you want to teach (TA, readers, tutors), find fellowships for dissertation research, or identify resources as a grad student parent, we hope the information below is helpful. If you have any questions, please visit our frequently asked questions page that might have the answers you need or submit a ticket in the Student Support Portal via ServiceNow . If you are staff or faculty looking for additional resources, please visit the Graduate Education and Postdoctoral Affairs (GEPA) Campus Partners Collab page.

Tuition and Fees

See registration fees for the current and previous academic years.

Staff Destinations

Financial Support Request Tool (FSRT)

Access the Financial Support Online Request Tool (FSRT) here or through Student DB. Remember to bookmark for quick, direct access in the future.

NEW Financial Support Payments Tool (FSPT)

The Financial Support Payments Tool (FSPT) is UC San Diego's new homegrown system for managing non-employment graduate student financial support. See our training overview and get oriented before diving into the details of the application.

Policies and Procedures

Financial support policies and procedures as well as timely updates and calendars can now be found on GEPA Campus Partners Collab page.

Information about fellowship and grant opportunities available to graduate students.

Information about all types of job opportunities for graduate students on-campus and beyond.

Support for Student Parents

Information about childbirth accommodations and childcare reimbursement for students with depdendents.

Enrollment & Registration Deadlines

See the Enrollment and Registration calendar for the current academic year.

Individual Development Plan (IDP)

Read about the IDP process.

Contact the Financial Support Unit via the Student Support Portal in Services & Support.

Non Discrimination Statement : In accordance with applicable Federal and State law and University policy, the University of California does not discriminate, or grant preferences, on the basis of race, color, national origin, religion, sex, disability, and/or other protected categories. More information about Proposition 209 can be found here . More information about the University of California Anti-Discrimination Policy can be found here.

Grad Ed & Postdoc Affairs

Financial Support Tuition & Fees Fellowships Employment Third-Party Payments Non-UC Visiting Grads Financial Support FAQ Staff Destinations

Third-Party Payments

Non-UC Visiting Grads

Financial Support FAQ

Staff Destinations

Postdoctoral Affairs