Veteran Benefits

Veterans Benefits for Non-Resident Students

Veterans Benefits for Non-Resident Students

Find answers to frequently asked questions about veterans benefits for non-resident students at UC San Diego.

Please refer to all applicable sections of our website to learn more about using benefits at UC San Diego!

To access all available topics, revisit our home page , or use the links on the left (on your desktop computer) or at the bottom of the page (if you're on a phone).

Do I have to pay the Non-Resident Supplemental Tuition (NRST, or out-of-state tuition) charge?

As a result of the Veterans Access, Choice, and Accountability Act of 2014 (VACAA), students using the Chapter 33 Post 9/11 GI Bill®, Chapter 35 Dependents Educational Assistance (DEA), Chapter 31 Veterans, Readiness and Employment (VRE), Chapter 30 Montgomery GI Bill (MGIB-AD), or Chapter 1606 MGIB-Selected Reserves are entitled to an exemption from out-of-state tuition charges simply by using their benefit for at minimum the first quarter they attend (they don't have to have enough entitlement to cover the entire first quarter to qualify). As long as they do not take a break longer than a quarter (a 2-quarter break will reset the exemption) the exemption will remain applied to their account even if they stop using the benefit or it is exhausted.

Submit a copy of your Certificate of Eligibility to vao@ucsd.edu after you have accepted your offer of admission to have the exemption applied to your account.

Some graduate programs do no have an out-of-state tuition charge; for these programs an exemption from the out-of-state tuition is not necessary.

Students determined to be non-residents of California by the UCSD Residence Deputy cannot use the Cal Vet College Fee waiver within the UC system (even if you receive an out-of-state tuition exemption).

Read more about Residence for Tuition Purposes .

Does UCSD participate in the Yellow Ribbon Program (YRP)?

As a result of recent legislation, students can get an exemption from the non-resident supplemental tuition (NRST, or out-of-state tuition) simply by using the Chapter 33 Post 9/11 GI Bill® , the Chapter 35 DEA program , or the Chapter 31 VRE program for at least the first quarter at UCSD.

As long as you do not take a break longer than a quarter (a 2-quarter break will reset the exemption) the exemption will remain applied to your account even if you stop using the benefit or it is exhausted.

As the YRP is designed to help defray the cost of out-of-state tuition, it is no longer necessary within the University of California system.

Some graduate programs do no have an out-of-state tuition charge; for these programs an exemption from the out-of-state tuition is not necessary.

If you still have questions or need assistance, contact the Veteran Benefits Office:

Email: vao@ucsd.edu

Registrar's Office, Student Services Center, 2nd floor ( map )

Find additional veteran / military resources and support:

Financial Aid & Scholarships Office

Student Veterans Resource Center