Programs and Events

Maintenance of Status

Maintenance of Status Workshops

Find upcoming workshops and webinars for international students and scholars regarding maintenance of status, including topics such as understanding visa regulations and travel.

International Scholar Workshops

J-1 | Gallagher (Garnett-Powers) on Visitor Scholar Insurance Plans for J-1 Scholars

Representatives from Gallagher (Garnett-Powers and Associates) will be available via zoom to talk about the J-1 Visiting Scholar insurance plans.

Topics to be addressed include:

Understanding U.S. health insurance jargon

How to use the health insurance plans to keep out-of-pocket costs less

How to best use the Basic plan given its minimal coverage

How to locate a provider in a specific zip code

How to read an "Explanation of Benefits"

Difference between Gallagher (Garnett-Powers), the insurance broker, and the actual insurance company

General Health Insurance Questions? Email us at ifsoinsurance@ucsd.edu

Enroll via ievents.ucsd.edu .

J-1 | Understanding 212E and the 12- and 24-Month Bars

If you are currently in a J1 status, we invite you to join us for an informational session on regulatory requirements that may affect you. Topics will include the 12-month bar, 24-month bar, 212e two-year home residency requirement, and more. Find out how these topics may affect you and your dependents. Q&A will be held at the end of the session.

Additional Dates Coming Soon

Travel and Re-entry

This workshop is for faculty and scholars in nonimmigrant visa classifications sponsored by UC San Diego who are planning to travel outside the U.S. Learn about the various updates that could impact your travel and re-entry to the U.S., as well as understanding the process for J-1s to request a travel signature, which documents you will need to reenter the U.S., and steps you should take once you have re-entered.

Additional Dates Coming Soon

International Student Workshops

F-1 | Know the Rules for F-1 Students

Understand the basic rules and regulations you need to follow to maintain your F-1  immigration status while studying at UC San Diego!

See recorded webinar here.

J-1 | Know the Rules for J-1 Students

Understand the basic rules and regulations you need to follow to maintain your J-1 immigration status while studying at UC San Diego!

See recorded webinar here.

F-1 | Next Steps: Options After Graduation

Are you an F-1 international student completing your program this Spring or Summer? If so, this informational session is for you! Grab a cup of coffee and tune in to understand options available to you to maintain your F-1 status in the U.S. after graduation, including working, transferring to a new school/program, or pursuing a higher degree level at UC San Diego!

See recorded webinar here .

Maintenance of Status

Educational Workshops