Preparing to Graduate

Dissertation & Thesis Submission

Dissertation & Thesis Submission

Review the information below on the requirements and process for doctoral and master’s students writing a dissertation/thesis and preparing for their defense. Please refer to the Dissertation/Thesis Defense Timeline Snapshot below for a general timeline to dissertation/thesis submission, defense, and degree completion.

We have launched a new process for filing the dissertation/thesis. The process is described below and in this How to File for Degree document.

How to File for the Degree

Prior to your defense, follow the steps below:

Contact your department's graduate coordinator to review your dissertation/thesis committee and to discuss the process for scheduling your defense. New or reconstituted committees must be submitted to GEPA by your graduate coordinator and approved by GEPA prior to the defense (at least two weeks).

Review the requirements regarding committee participation at the defense here for doctoral students and here for master's students .

The doctoral dissertation/master's thesis must be submitted to each member of the doctoral/thesis committee at least four weeks before the final examination/defense .

Students who plan to graduate in the current quarter must fill out the online form in Kuali, “ File for Doctoral/Master’s (Thesis) Degree Form .” See How to File for Degree for an overview of the process.

Step 1 : Submit File for Doctoral/Master’s (Thesis) Degree Form * Fill out the form and submit by Friday of week 5 to indicate your intent to file for degree completion in the current quarter. (Submission after week 5 may result in not being approved for completion  in the current quarter.)

Fill out the form and submit by Friday of week 5 to indicate your intent to file for degree completion in the current quarter. (Submission after week 5 may result in not being approved for completion  in the current quarter.)

Step 2 : “Review Academic History” A GEPA Academic Affairs Advisor will review the “File for Degree” request, typically within 2 weeks, and conduct a review of your academic history. You will be notified via email when the review is complete. Review the “Review Academic History” form (link provided in the email). Resolve any actions indicated. If there are none indicated, go to the next step. Acknowledge receipt and review of the academic history form by clicking the “I have reviewed all items” button on the form. You may also request an optional formatting pre-check of your dissertation/thesis in this step. Students who do not request the pre-check will have their formatting review done in the next step (see "Final Review" section below). Formatting pre-checks are not offered during the last 2 weeks of the quarter. You may view your submission by logging into Kuali at https://ucsd.kualibuild.com/ .

A GEPA Academic Affairs Advisor will review the “File for Degree” request, typically within 2 weeks, and conduct a review of your academic history. You will be notified via email when the review is complete.

Review the “Review Academic History” form (link provided in the email).

Resolve any actions indicated. If there are none indicated, go to the next step.

Acknowledge receipt and review of the academic history form by clicking the “I have reviewed all items” button on the form.

You may also request an optional formatting pre-check of your dissertation/thesis in this step. Students who do not request the pre-check will have their formatting review done in the next step (see "Final Review" section below). Formatting pre-checks are not offered during the last 2 weeks of the quarter.

You may view your submission by logging into Kuali at https://ucsd.kualibuild.com/ .

The next step is described in the "Final Review" section below.

*If you're unable to access the File for Doctoral/Master's (Thesis) Degree Form, contact your GEPA Academic Affairs Advisor.

Final Review (after the defense)

After following Steps 1 and 2, described in the "How to File for the Degree" section above, follow Step 3 below. To request a formatting pre-check, view Step 2.

Step 3 : “Final Degree Checklist” Use this checklist to identify and track all required actions/items for degree completion. You may save the form to mark your progress as each item is completed. You may view your submission by logging into Kuali at https://ucsd.kualibuild.com/ . Once all items are completed, click “Mark Complete” at the top. The form will then route to GEPA for the Final Review. (Refer to the form for a complete list of items) Approved dissertation/thesis is formatted according to the requirements listed in the " Preparation and Submission Manual for Doctoral Dissertations and Master's Theses " and is submitted to ProQuest . Dissertation/Thesis release form is signed by you and your committee chair and uploaded to ProQuest under "Administrative Documents". If applicable, co-author permission letters are uploaded to Kuali Link . See permission letter and cover letter Template Link , and guidelines for acceptable signatures link . Successful defense of the dissertation/thesis is completed. Department/program has submitted the Final Report Form in DocuSign. The Final Report Form must be received by GEPA by the 11th Friday of the quarter . SDSU JDP students only : initiate the signature page in DocuSign at this link . Once all committee members have signed the signature page, it will be electronically routed to GEPA Academic Affairs. The deadline to submit the Final Degree Checklist to GEPA is the 11 th Friday of the quarter or early September for summer graduation (see general deadlines and the Registrar’s Enrollment and Registration Calendar for more information on deadlines and specific dates). If the deadline is missed the degree will be awarded in the next quarter. The degree conferral date is always the last day of the given quarter (see the Registrar's Enrollment and Registration Calendar for specific dates). Once submitted, your GEPA Academic Affairs Advisor will be notified and will review your final forms and your dissertation/thesis within 1-2 weeks (for submissions received by the filing deadline to earn a degree for the current term). You will be alerted by email of any missing items or required corrections.

Use this checklist to identify and track all required actions/items for degree completion. You may save the form to mark your progress as each item is completed.

You may view your submission by logging into Kuali at https://ucsd.kualibuild.com/ .

Once all items are completed, click “Mark Complete” at the top. The form will then route to GEPA for the Final Review. (Refer to the form for a complete list of items) Approved dissertation/thesis is formatted according to the requirements listed in the " Preparation and Submission Manual for Doctoral Dissertations and Master's Theses " and is submitted to ProQuest . Dissertation/Thesis release form is signed by you and your committee chair and uploaded to ProQuest under "Administrative Documents". If applicable, co-author permission letters are uploaded to Kuali Link . See permission letter and cover letter Template Link , and guidelines for acceptable signatures link . Successful defense of the dissertation/thesis is completed. Department/program has submitted the Final Report Form in DocuSign. The Final Report Form must be received by GEPA by the 11th Friday of the quarter . SDSU JDP students only : initiate the signature page in DocuSign at this link . Once all committee members have signed the signature page, it will be electronically routed to GEPA Academic Affairs.

Approved dissertation/thesis is formatted according to the requirements listed in the " Preparation and Submission Manual for Doctoral Dissertations and Master's Theses " and is submitted to ProQuest .

Dissertation/Thesis release form is signed by you and your committee chair and uploaded to ProQuest under "Administrative Documents".

If applicable, co-author permission letters are uploaded to Kuali Link . See permission letter and cover letter Template Link , and guidelines for acceptable signatures link .

Successful defense of the dissertation/thesis is completed.

Department/program has submitted the Final Report Form in DocuSign. The Final Report Form must be received by GEPA by the 11th Friday of the quarter .

SDSU JDP students only : initiate the signature page in DocuSign at this link . Once all committee members have signed the signature page, it will be electronically routed to GEPA Academic Affairs.

The deadline to submit the Final Degree Checklist to GEPA is the 11 th Friday of the quarter or early September for summer graduation (see general deadlines and the Registrar’s Enrollment and Registration Calendar for more information on deadlines and specific dates). If the deadline is missed the degree will be awarded in the next quarter. The degree conferral date is always the last day of the given quarter (see the Registrar's Enrollment and Registration Calendar for specific dates).

Once submitted, your GEPA Academic Affairs Advisor will be notified and will review your final forms and your dissertation/thesis within 1-2 weeks (for submissions received by the filing deadline to earn a degree for the current term).

You will be alerted by email of any missing items or required corrections.

Filing Fee/Readmission Fee: Students may need to pay the filing fee/readmission fee. Any fees will be indicated on the "Academic History Review" page and marked on the Final Report Form. Fees will be assessed to Tritonlink once the degree is processed, after the end of the quarter. A billing statement will be emailed when fees are assessed.

Dissertation/Thesis Submission & Formatting Webinar

The Dissertation/Thesis Submission & Formatting webinar is held quarterly and provides an overview of the dissertation/thesis submission process and formatting guidelines. Please refer to the full formatting manual for detailed formatting information. RSVP for the next webinar via the "Register Now" button in the "Attend a Formatting Webinar" section below this one.

The slide deck from the April 14, Spring 2026 dissertation/thesis submission & formatting webinar can be found here . Common questions about dissertation/thesis submission and formatting can be found here .

If you are unable to attend a webinar, the information is available in 4 topic-based recordings below.

► Webinar Part One: Degree Filing Process & Submitting Dissertation/Thesis

► Webinar Part Two: Degree Paperwork

► Webinar Part Three: Dissertation & Thesis Formatting Manual

► Webinar Part Four: Permission Letters

Attend a Formatting Webinar

The next Dissertation/Thesis Submission & Formatting Webinar is on Tuesday, July 14 at 10:00am (PT) Unable to attend the next Webinar? Click here to view the slide deck or a pre-recorded version .

The next Dissertation/Thesis Submission & Formatting Webinar is on Tuesday, July 14 at 10:00am (PT)

Unable to attend the next Webinar? Click here to view the slide deck or a pre-recorded version .

Dissertation/Thesis Appointments

Preliminary and final dissertation/thesis appointments are no longer required. Please see the Dissertation & Thesis Submission page for information on how to file for the degree.

Permission Letter Submission Form

Students must submit permission letters from all co-authors, if the dissertation/thesis will use material which has been submitted for publication or has been published. Letters must be submitted to GEPA via the online form.

Submit Letters Here

Non Discrimination Statement : In accordance with applicable Federal and State law and University policy, the University of California does not discriminate, or grant preferences, on the basis of race, color, national origin, religion, sex, disability, and/or other protected categories. More information about Proposition 209 can be found here . More information about the University of California Anti-Discrimination Policy can be found here.

Preparing to Graduate

Degree Completion

Dissertation & Thesis Submission

Dissertation & Thesis Manual

Dissertation & Thesis Template