Scholar Services

Travel and Visa Application

New International Scholars at UC San Diego: Tips for Your Visa Interview

Tips for Your Visa Interview

Here are some points to remember when you are applying for your non-immigrant visa and preparing for your interview:

Show Ties to Your Home Country

Under U.S. law, all applicants for nonimmigrant visas, such as J-1 visas, are viewed as intending immigrants until they can convince the consular officer that they are not.

You must, therefore, be able to show that you have reasons for returning to your home country that are stronger than those for remaining in the United States. "Ties" to your home country are the things that bind you to your home town , homeland, or current place of residence: job, family, financial prospects that you own or will inherit, investments, etc.

If you are a prospective scholar, the interviewing officer may ask about your specific intentions or promise of future employment, family or other relationships, educational objectives, long-range plans and career prospects in your home country.

Each person's situation is different, of course, and there is no magic explanation or single document, certificate, or letter which can guarantee visa issuance.

If you have applied for the U.S. Green Card Lottery, you may be asked if you are intending to immigrate. A simple answer would be that you applied for the lottery since it was available but not with a specific intent to immigrate.

If you overstayed your authorized stay in the United States previously, be prepared to explain what happened clearly and concisely, with documentation, if available.

Practice Speaking in English

Anticipate that the interview will be conducted in English and not in your native language.

One suggestion is to practice English conversation with a native speaker before the interview, but do not prepare speeches!

If you are coming to the United States solely to study intensive English, be prepared to explain how English will be useful for you in your home country.

Speak for Yourself

Do not bring parents or family members with you to the interview. The consular officer wants to interview you, not your family. A negative impression is created if you are not prepared to speak on your own behalf.

Because of the volume of applications received, all consular officers are under considerable time pressure to conduct a quick and efficient interview. They must make a decision, for the most part, on the impressions they form during the first minute of the interview.

Consequently, what you say first and the initial impression you create are critical to your success. Keep your answers to the officer's questions short and to the point.

Bring Additional Documentation

It should be immediately clear to the consular officer what written documents you are presenting and what they signify. Lengthy written explanations cannot be quickly read or evaluated.

Remember that you will have 2-3 minutes of interview time, if you are lucky.

Know That Not All Countries Are Created Equal

Applicants from countries suffering economic problems or from countries where many students have remained in the United States as immigrants will have more difficulty getting visas.

Statistically, applicants from those countries are more likely to be intending immigrants.

How to Discuss Dependents Remaining at Home

If your spouse and children are remaining behind in your country, be prepared to address how they will support themselves in your absence.

This can be an especially tricky area if you are the primary source of income for your family. If the consular officer gains the impression that your family will need you to remit money from the United States in order to support themselves, your student visa application will almost certainly be denied.

If your family does decide to join you at a later time, it is helpful to have them apply at the same post where you applied for your visa.

A visa denial occurs when a U.S. consular officer determines during the visa process that the applicant does not meet the eligibility requirements under U.S. immigration law and refuses to issue the visa. If your visa is denied, you will be informed of the reason for the denial. You have the opportunity to reapply if you can provide additional evidence to support your case. Before reapplying, ensure you fully understand the grounds for your denial and complete the Visa Delay or Denial eform in iServices to notify your ISEO scholar advisor. This will help your ISEO scholar advisor review your plan and ensure you don't overlook any important details.

See our Visa and Travel Incident Reporting page for additional details on Visa Denials.

Travel and Visa Application

Difference Between Status and Visa

Apply for a U.S. Visa

Tips for Your Visa Interview

Visa and Travel Incident Reporting

Travel & Re-Entry

Travel Signature Request Form

Change of Status