Regents Scholarships for Entering Freshmen

Regents Scholarships for Entering Freshmen

The Regents Scholarship, based on academic excellence, is a prestigious scholarship awarded to UC undergraduate students. First-Year Regents Scholars receive a $20,000 scholarship paid at $5,000 per year in each of their 4 undergraduate years (plus other special privileges).

Eligibility requirements

Entering freshman or transfer student (both California residents and non-residents)

Entering freshman or transfer student (both California residents and non-residents)

United States citizens, permanent residents, or California Dream Act students

United States citizens, permanent residents, or California Dream Act students

Demonstrated academic excellence (strength and breadth of your high school academic program, grades and other academic criteria)

Demonstrated academic excellence (strength and breadth of your high school academic program, grades and other academic criteria)

File your UC Application for Admission and Scholarships by the Nov. 30 deadline.

You don't need to file any other paperwork.

UC San Diego notifies recipients of Regents Scholarships when College Financing Plans become available .

Entering freshmen and transfers receive an annual honorarium of $5,000. Entering freshmen will receive the honorarium for 4 academic years, and entering transfers receive it for 2 academic years.

Regents Scholarship Benefits

UC San Diego college of choice at time of admission

At the time of admission, Regents Scholars are assigned their first-choice UC San Diego college as indicated on their UC Application for Admission, subject to availability.

Read more about UC San Diego's Eight Colleges .

Priority enrollment appointments

Priority enrollment starts with the first Winter Quarter. The first Fall Quarter enrollment occurs during the normal Freshman enrollment period around August -September. Regents Scholars will have priority enrollment appointment times during the first and second pass enrollment periods through 4 years of undergraduate attendance at UC San Diego.

View your enrollment appointment times for both passes each upcoming quarter by checking the announcements on the Financial Aid and Scholarships (FAS) student portal .

UC San Diego announces enrollment appointment dates and times for the next quarter on Friday of Week 5 of the current quarter. During the first pass, students may only enroll in 11.5 units within a specified timeframe. During the second pass, students may enroll in up to 19.5 units, including waitlisted courses. Students in a priority group who do not enroll during their first pass appointment must wait until their second pass appointment to enroll.

If you don't receive an enrollment time on the first day of priority enrollment, please contact the Scholarship Office .

Research program

Participation in a cutting-edge research program during the first quarter of enrollment, subject to availability. Physical Sciences, Arts & Humanities, Social Sciences, and Engineering are some of the participating divisions.

While the Regents Scholarship program is a UC systemwide program, the Regents Scholars Research Initiative (RSRI) program is unique to UC San Diego. More information is provided in the admit packet sent to Regents Scholars in March.

Faculty Mentor Program

Participation in the Undergraduate Research Hub’s Faculty Mentor Program in the sophomore year, assuming the program requirements are met.

Entering First-Year Students

Entering Transfer Students

Chancellor's Scholarships for Entering First-Year

Regents Scholarships for Entering Freshmen

Continuing Undergraduate Students

Receiving Scholarship Funds from Non-UC San Diego Organizations

Middle Class Scholarship

Outside Agency Scholarships