Off-Campus Housing

Commuter Students: How to be a Responsible Neighbor and Tenant

Commuter Students: How to be a Responsible Neighbor and Tenant

Read guidelines for being a good neighbor if you live off campus, and learn about the San Diego Police Department's CAPP program.

Follow these tips to be a responsible tenant and neighbor, and avoid conflicts with neighbors or legal action:

Pay your rent on time. If you cannot pay when the rent is due, contact your landlord to explain the situation, and give a date when you can pay.

Inform the property manager when anything needs to be repaired. It is best to hand-deliver a request in writing with a witness, or send it by certified mail. (Remember to keep a copy for yourself.) Keep accurate, organized records of all requests and transactions between you and your landlord.

Obey the laws of your neighborhood and apartment complex. Every neighborhood is different. Make sure you understand any rules set by a homeowner's association in your area. If you fail to comply with its policies, you might be subject to a lawsuit.

Get to know your neighbors. Understand that neighbors who are not college students may not be on a student schedule.

Notify your neighbors if you plan to have a gathering. They may respond better if you have built a relationship and given them notice.

Avoid hosting social functions that may cause problems with neighbors or that may cause your house to be " CAPPed ."

Do not engage in, or allow, any illegal activity.

Community Assisted Party Program: Don't get CAPPed

The San Diego Police Department sponsors the Community Assisted Party Program (CAPP) to curb nuisance behavior at chronic party houses. If your residence receives a CAPP designation, officers will show zero tolerance when responding to all future party calls, which may result in direct enforcement such as:

Property or vehicle impounds

A house can be CAPPed for several reasons, including:

Increased traffic

Loud and unreasonable noise

Public drunkenness

Underage drinking

Your neighbors can contact the San Diego CAPP coordinator to report your address when there is a violation. Your house will be CAPPed if:

There are 2 calls within 30 days

Officers make a citation or arrest when responding to a party call

If your house is CAPPed, it will remain on the CAPP list for 1 year, regardless of occupant changes.

UC San Diego Student Legal Services CAPS: Alcohol education and programs

Student Legal Services

CAPS: Alcohol education and programs

California Tenants Guide (large PDF) , produced by the California Department of Consumer Affairs

Tenants Together , California tenants' rights advocacy organization