Online Visits (Telehealth)

Online Visits (Telehealth)

What is “Telehealth” or “Telemedicine”?

The terms Telehealth and Telemedicine are sometimes used interchangeably and refer to online visits with real-time, audio-video communication between providers and patients that are in different locations. You may also have verbal/audio-only or written communication with your provider such as telephone conversations, emails, instant messaging, and online questionnaires.

Your provider may request a follow-up appointment in-person for physical examination, laboratory testing, x-ray, or procedures.

What Should I Use Telehealth Online Visits For?

Many appointment types can be done via telehealth. Common telehealth-appropriate visits include urinary symptoms, skin symptoms (such as acne, eczema, and rashes), STI symptoms or treatment, birth control counseling, medication refills, referral renewals, and mild cold or flu symptoms. Some concerns that are best addressed at an in-person appointment include physical exams, traumatic injury, or febrile illness.

If you are not sure whether you need an online appointment, in-person urgent care, or the emergency department, see our guide Where to Get Care .

Video Visits with SHS Providers

Virtual appointments are available with SHS providers using the MyChart telehealth platform on your computer, smart phone, or tablet. You must be in California at the time of your appointment. SHS offers extended telehealth hours on some evenings and weekends. For students with UC SHIP or RAFT , there is no charge. Those without SHIP or RAFT can also be seen in SHS telehealth appointments but fee for service charges will apply. See our Cost of Services page for details.

SHS offers telehealth appointments during regular business hours and has extended telehealth hours on some evenings and weekends. You can schedule an SHS telehealth appointment online through MyStudentChart or by calling (858) 534-3300.

Instructions for MyChart Video Visit (PDF)

Other Options for Video Visits

Express Care Video Visit

UCSD Health Express Care offers telehealth appointments and is open daily, including weekends and some holidays. Learn more about Express Care services and schedule a video visit. The copay with UC SHIP is $10. The cost without insurance is $49 per visit. Students without UC SHIP should contact their insurance provider first to verify coverage and copays.

LiveHealth Online

LiveHealth Online is another option for telehealth visits and is available 24/7. Visit the LiveHealth Online website to register or see their FAQ page for more information. The copay with UC SHIP is $25. The cost without insurance is $55 per visit. All UCSD students can use the code UCSDMEDICAL to receive $25 off.

Urgent & After-Hours Care

SHS has options for Urgent & After-Hours Care if you are experiencing health concerns or issues that cannot wait for a regular appointment. Not sure whether you need a regular appointment or urgent care services? Our Where to Get Care guide can assist you.

Online Scheduling

Online Visits (Telehealth)

Hours & Location