Student Services

Changes to Enrollment

Academic Major Change

Academic Major Change

Find information about what actions F-1 and J-1 students should take after changing their major or adding a second major.

Note: This guidance does not apply to EAP Reciprocity students, Third-Party-Sponsored Students (e.g. Fulbright, etc.), Global Exchange students, or students in Special Programs such as HSI. The CIP code for EAPR and Global Exchange Students will always default to ‘24.0199 Liberal Arts and Sciences, General Studies and Humanities, Other’ regardless of your major at your home university.

Newly admitted students should NOT request an Updated I-20 or DS-2019 for a major change until after arrival to the United States and your SEVIS record has been registered. ISEO recognizes that students may have changed their major before arrival to the United States. ISEO has provided a Support Letter that you may show a Consular Officer or at the U.S. Port of Entry should it be requested.

Update your Academic Major

When F-1 and J-1 students change their major or add a second major through TritonLink, ISEO will automatically receive a notification and the student's SEVIS record will be updated. Since your SEVIS record will be updated automatically soon after your new major or double major is approved and appears in your TritonLink, you do not need to report this change to ISEO .

Academic minors are not reported to your SEVIS record, so there is no need to request an updated I-20/DS-2019 if you add a minor.

Request an Updated I-20 or DS-2019:

ISEO will not automatically issue an updated I-20 or DS-2019 after you update your major. If you are planning to travel internationally after you have changed your major or added a double major, then you will need to use an updated I-20 or DS-2019 to re-enter the US along with a valid F-1/J-1 visa.

If you need an updated I-20 or DS-2019, you must meet all of the following requirements:

You must be maintaining your current F-1 or J-1 visa status - your SEVIS record must be in “Active” status

Your new major or double major must be fully approved by all required offices at UC San Diego, and it must appear on your TritonLink. For more information, visit one of the links below: Changing major for Undergraduate students Changing major for Graduate students

Changing major for Undergraduate students

Changing major for Graduate students

Submit the Updated I-20 Request or Updated DS-2019 Request in iServices :

Find the Verification and Support Services category in the left menu. For F-1 Students: Select the Updated I-20 Request . Choose the Update Academic Major option. For J-1 Students: Select the Updated DS-2019 Request . Choose the Update Academic Major option.

For F-1 Students: Select the Updated I-20 Request . Choose the Update Academic Major option.

Select the Updated I-20 Request .

Choose the Update Academic Major option.

For J-1 Students: Select the Updated DS-2019 Request . Choose the Update Academic Major option.

Select the Updated DS-2019 Request .

Choose the Update Academic Major option.

Submit the required eForm. You will receive a confirmation email when your request has been successfully submitted.

ISEO has an average processing time of 10 business days . You will be notified via email when your request is complete.

Changes to Enrollment

Academic Major Change

Reduced Course Loads (RCLs)

Program Extension

Degree Level Change

Enrollment Outside UC San Diego

Academic Disqualification and Suspension

Visa Status Violations

Regaining Status