Student Services

Working in the U.S.

How to Find Internationally Friendly Employers

How to Find Internationally Friendly Employers

Use these resources to help you find employment during or after your program at UC San Diego. For information about work authorization, please review our Working in the U.S. website .

Interstride is a digital platform that provides students with visa‑friendly job and internship searches, employer insights, and career and immigration resources. Students can activate their free account at interstride.com/ucsd/ .

UC San Diego Career Center Resources

The Career Center can coach you on how to find that ideal job, internship, or experiential outcome. Boost your skill set and become better prepared now. For general questions, email careercenter@ucsd.edu

Career Center Events and Workshops : All events are located at the Career Center unless noted otherwise. Events are organized by category and then chronological by date. RSVP via Handshake unless otherwise noted.

Career Resources for International Students : Schedule an advising appointment with a Career Consultant via Handshake for specific career-related topics such as: Resume/Cover Letter Review, Job/Internship Search, Networking, and much more. Please note that the Career Center may only support students in the six months following graduation . Alumni are encouraged to explore Career and Professional Development through the Alumni Assocation as well as Career Coaches and Counselors .

Please note that the Career Center may only support students in the six months following graduation . Alumni are encouraged to explore Career and Professional Development through the Alumni Assocation as well as Career Coaches and Counselors .

Current Grad Students : Tailored workshops and events help graduate students and post-doctoral scholars discover career options, learn successful job search strategies, and connect with employers and alumni.

Online Career Tools : Log in to Handshake to access Career Services restricted tools for UC San Diego students and alumni. Other tools are hyperlinked. You will find references to these tools throughout the Career Service Center website.

Handshake : is UC San Diego's database of full-time jobs, internships, volunteer opportunities and all on-campus jobs, including work-study.

Employer Information for International Students Spreadsheet

UC San Diego Career Center Youtube Channel

UC San Diego Career Center Instagram

UC San Diego Handshake

Handshake is UC San Diego's database of off-campus jobs, internships, volunteer opportunities, and on-campus jobs (including work-study). Register or log in to browse Handshake for jobs and internships .

In this video tutorial , learn how to use filters in Handshake to identify opportunities of particular relevance for international students.

UC San Diego International Student Alumni Employment Data

The Employer Information spreadsheet lists more than 1,000 companies across numerous industries that previously hired UC San Diego international students based on 2020-2021 data from ISEO. Additionally, c companies that express a willingness to accept CPT/OPT work authorizations are added to the list by the Career Center. Students can use this list as a starting point in their targeted internship/job search to identify international employee-friendly employers. Please note this is NOT a list of employers that are currently hiring international students.

Tips for using this list: Visit the employment pages of these companies to search for potential openings. Also check out their global careers pages to search for opportunities in your home country or region. Use this list, Tritons Connect , the UC San Diego Alumni LinkedIn network , and your own networks (family, classmates, professors, etc.) to help you identify professionals for informational interviews and networking opportunities . Do not limit your search to these companies because there are many other companies that may be interested in your skills.

Visit the employment pages of these companies to search for potential openings. Also check out their global careers pages to search for opportunities in your home country or region.

Use this list, Tritons Connect , the UC San Diego Alumni LinkedIn network , and your own networks (family, classmates, professors, etc.) to help you identify professionals for informational interviews and networking opportunities .

Do not limit your search to these companies because there are many other companies that may be interested in your skills.

Access the Employer Information spreadsheet here .

S ee below for employer data for UC San Diego students on post-completion F-1 Optional Practical Training, F-1 STEM OPT, and J-1 Academic Training during the previous calendar year. This data was reported by UC San Diego students last year to the Student Exchange Visitor Information System (SEVIS). No student identifying information is included on the map; only employers and employer addresses. To best navigate the map, click on “View larger map” on the bottom and click on the two arrows in the top left corner.

Access the Alumni Employer Data Map here .

H-1B Employer Data Map:

See below for H-1B sponsoring employers filing Labor Condition Applications (LCAs) with the U.S. Department of Labor during the second quarter of the previous federal fiscal year (January 1st - March 31st) in preparation for the H-1B cap lottery. Source comes from LCA Disclosure Data. Data is for all U.S. employers, not necessarily just UC San Diego students or scholars. To best navigate the map, click on “View larger map” on the bottom and click on the two arrows in the top left corner.

Access the H-1B Employer Data Map here .

The H-1B Employer Data Hub includes data from fiscal year 2009 through fiscal year 2022 (quarter 3) on employers who have submitted petitions to employ H-1B nonimmigrant workers. Data can be queried by fiscal year, employer name, city, state, zip code, and NAICS code.

Access the H-1B Employer Data Hub here .

Job-Searching Resources

A Guide for U.S. Employers on Hiring UC San Diego International Students : Students, you can reference this guide with employers!

UC San Diego Alumni Networks

How to answer: Will you now or in the future require sponsorship to work in the US?

U.S. Employer Tips for Hiring Hopkins International Students (Johns Hopkins University)

Answering Common Employer Questions About Sponsorship (UW Madison)

International Student Resources and Jobs Search Engine

Lyft- Get Job Access with Free Rides : If you need rides to job trainings, job interviews, or a job, see if this program is available in your city

LinkedIn Alumni Pages:

ISEO LinkedIn Page

UC San Diego International Students & Alumni LinkedIn Group

Note: If you are looking for additional resources or guidance on how to use them, please connect with UC San Diego Career Center . The Career Center's advisors have specific expertise to help international students in their job search.

Division of Graduate Education and Postdoctoral Affairs

Featured Events : list of upcoming events, student organization activities, and new resources and opportunities for graduate students. Available : Fall, Winter, Spring

Available : Fall, Winter, Spring

grAdvantage : A suite of programs designed to promote the career and professional success of graduate students and postdoctoral scholars.

UC San Diego Extended Studies Professional Development

International Programs : offering English language, university credit, professional certificate, and customized programs for personal, academic, and professional development to international students who are here for a full-time program of non-degree studies.

Leadership and Teamwork Certificate : This certificate is part of the Division of Graduate Education and Postdoctoral Affairs grAdvatnage program and i s starting in Winter this year.  The program is only open to graduate students and postdocs and acceptance is by application only. This certificate is designed to equip participants with strong "soft skills" to complement their technical skills and expertise. Regardless of the field, qualities such as solid communication skills, self-awareness, time management, and the ability to function on diverse and collaborative teams are highly sought-after.

Student Grant Program : offers undergraduate and graduate vouchers to full-time UC San Diego students every quarter. A limited number of vouchers are offered on a first-come, first-served basis and are good for a discount on one Extension course. Please see the website for dates of availability.

Working in the U.S.

How to Find Employers

J-1 On-Campus Work

J-1 Academic Training (AT)

J-1 Volunteering and Unpaid Internships

F-1 On-Campus Work

F-1 Off-Campus Work (CPT)

F-1 Optional Practical Training (OPT)

F-1 Volunteering and Unpaid Internships

F-1 Economic Hardship

F-1 International Organizations