Hours & Location

Hours and Location

Hours of Operation

Extended Telehealth Hours

SHS has an After Hours Nurse Advice Line available for students. Any time Student Health Services is closed, you can call our regular telephone number (858) 534-3300 and select the option for "After Hours Advice" to speak with a registered nurse who will assist you in obtaining the appropriate care.

Student Health Services is located on Library Walk, west of the Price Center, south of Geisel Library.

9521 Mandeville Lane La Jolla, CA 92093

The address above is helpful for driving directions in maps apps and will bring users to the intersection of Lyman Ln. and Mandeville Ln.. Continue onto Lyman and turn immediately left into the driveway parked "P415 - Student Health Only".

Student Health Services has limited on-site parking which is reserved for severely ill or injured patients. These 5 reserved spots are located on the Urgent Care ( w est) side of our building. To use these parking spaces, you must check-in through SHS Urgent Care and obtain a parking pass. Students without serious health conditions are not eligible to use these spaces. Therefore, if you must come to SHS by car, please have a friend drop you off, and then pick you up after your visit.

Closest parking: Gilman, Hopkins, and the South Parking Structure are the closest to our building. The South Parking Structure has the most available spaces for visitors. Campus parking is limited during the day and the Gilman structure usually fills up by 8 am. It can take more than an hour to find parking on campus after 10am, so consider catching the trolley or taking a bus if traveling to campus during the day.

Purchasing a parking permit: You can purchase various types of permits online or through the ParkMobile app. Student permit (S) spots are very limited, but the visitor permit (V) spots are more available and can be paid for by the hour.

Public Transportation

The Trolley: The Blue Line of the San Diego trolley system stops at the UCSD Central Campus Station . From the trolley platform, walk directly w est towards the Price Center and Library Walk to find our building.

UCSD Triton Transit Shuttles : The Inside Loop, Outside Loop, and Mesa Loop shuttles all stop at Gilman Dr. & Mandeville Ln . From this stop, walk north on Mandeville Ln and go right at the roundabout to find our building.

MTS Bus Lines: The following San Diego MTS bus lines reach our campus: 30, 41, 101, 201/202, 237, 974, 978, 979.

Online Scheduling

Online Visits (Telehealth)

Hours & Location