Financial Support

Financial Support FAQ

Financial Support FAQ

Financial Aid Resources

Changes to Graduate Student Stipend Payments

UC San Diego has been working to develop a new application to improve graduate student funding processes. The new application is called the Financial Support Payments Tool (FSPT) .

What's Changing for Graduate Students?

FSPT improves how stipends are paid and viewed. You’ll now enter your direct deposit information in TritonLink and UCPath as applicable, pending stipends will no longer appear in TritonLink , and stipend processing times will be faster , meaning more on-time and, in some cases earlier, payments.

Review the FSPT Stipends Doc: Info for Grad Students guide for more details.

Timekeeping Requirement

All UAW-represented academic appointees are required to complete their timesheets every month, whether they have any absences to report or not. Ecotime help guides can be found on the Ecotime Campus Timekeeping page.

If an employee does not have access to Ecotime please submit a Services and Support ticket to the Ecotime team.

What are the funding options for graduate students?

UC San Diego graduate students may apply for need-based aid by completing a Free Application for Federal student Aid (FAFSA). Need-based aid is administered through the Financial Aid Office, not the Graduate Education and Postdoctoral Affairs (GEPA):

UC San Diego Financial Aid Office

Financial Aid Timeline for Graduate/ Professional School Students

Financial Aid Eligibility Requirements for Graduate Students

Fellowships and Awards

Fellowships are generally merit-based awards that provide a stipend and tuition assistance to graduate students. Additional financial support and eligibility requirements may vary by award.

Fellowships and Opportunities for Entering Graduate Students

Fellowships and Traineeships

Academic Employment Opportunities

Financial support may be awarded through academic appointment of assistantships. These appointments, generally administered by discipline and department, may include a stipend and tuition payment for providing assistance in teaching and/or research support.

Job Opportunities for Graduate Students

Academic Students Employees (ASEs) and Graduate Student Researchers (GSRs)

How does a student sign up for direct deposit?

Types of Direct Deposit for Students:

Student Financial Solutions (stipend payments for domestic students and account refunds)

Payroll (ASE, GSR, and any other student employment paychecks)

Stipend Payments for International Students:

International students who are expecting a stipend payment should sign-up for direct deposit with both Student Financial Solutions and Disbursements and also should note they will be prompted to complete a Glacier record in order to determine appropriate taxation.

Student Financial Solutions

Please ensure that your data is current in all systems.

May a part-time graduate student receive financial support?

Academic Employment - Graduate students must be registered in a minimum of 12 units of upper-division and graduate-level work each quarter to be employed at greater than 25% time during the academic year. Students registered in fewer than 12 units are eligible for 25% time appointments upon department approval.

Fellowships and Traineeships - Awardees must register in a minimum of 12 units of upper-division and graduate-level work each quarter. See: https://grad.ucsd.edu/financial/fellowships/index.html

All graduate students who receive financial support must be in good academic standing as defined under the Standards of Scholarship in the General Catalog.

A request to the Dean of the Graduate Education and Postdoctoral Affairs (GEPA) for an exception to policy must be endorsed by the student’s advisor and department/program chair. Any payment that is an exception to policy must be pre-approved.

For questions regarding need-based aid eligibility, please contact Financial Aid: http://students.ucsd.edu/finances/financial-aid/index.html

Can a student who defended in Spring be paid during the summer?

A US Citizen or Permanent Resident who receives a terminal degree, and is eligible for support, can be supported through the quarter-break after graduation provided the student continues to be actively engaged in graduate student research.  The summer is considered to be the quarter-break after spring quarter.

An international student (F-1 or J-1 visa) can only be supported through the quarter date of graduation. Contact the International Center for additional information.

Can a student who was on a leave of absence during Spring be paid during the summer?

Where can a student find their support time limit (SUTL)?

Students can access this information on the Graduate Education and Postdoctoral Affairs (GEPA) Student Portal.  Single-Sign on is required.

https://student-db.grad.ucsd.edu

See below for some of the most frequently-asked questions regarding fee remission. For specific questions, reach out to your department, as they will have the most accurate and up-to-date information regarding your employment/fee remission. If assistance is still needed, please email grademployment@ucsd.edu .

I just accepted an employment offer. When will I see my fee remission?

Congratulations! Your home department will submit a request for fee remission on your behalf. Once they do this, the fee remission will be posted to your student account by the fee remission posting date (see below), or within 3-5 business days of their request, whichever is later.

*Important - You will need to be registered for classes in order for this to apply, since registering then causes a balance to appear on your account to which the fee remission can be applied.

2025-26 Fee Remission Posting Dates

Winter: 12/15/2025

Spring: 3/16/2026

Fee remission will not reflect on student accounts prior to the posting date.

I already paid my tuition bill and now I have received fee remission. Do I get a refund?

The fee remission includes health insurance. What if I  don't want UCSHIP?

Do I keep the funds for the health insurance fee remission if I waive UCSHIP?

What if my fee remission isn't applied in time for the billing due date?

I cancelled my health insurance waiver for the quarter. Can I have my health insurance fee remission reapplied?

Contact the Financial Support Unit via the Student Support Portal in Services & Support.

Non Discrimination Statement : In accordance with applicable Federal and State law and University policy, the University of California does not discriminate, or grant preferences, on the basis of race, color, national origin, religion, sex, disability, and/or other protected categories. More information about Proposition 209 can be found here . More information about the University of California Anti-Discrimination Policy can be found here.

Financial Support

Third-Party Payments

Non-UC Visiting Grads

Financial Support FAQ

Staff Destinations