Student Services

Changes to Enrollment

Taking Gap Quarter(s)

A gap quarter is when a student in good standing does not continue enrollment and has the intention to resume studies in a later term. This may also be known as a Leave of Absence . International students in F and J visa status who will take gap quarter(s) UC San Diego are required to report to ISEO prior to the start of their gap quarter. Failure to report will have a negative impact on your immigration status.

Eligibility and Impacts to Status

You are a continuing student and do not plan to be enrolled at all for a quarter or more during your program at UC San Diego

You must be physically outside of the U.S. for the entire duration of your gap quarter(s)

You cannot be employed by UC San Diego, UC San Diego Extension, or UC San Diego Medical Center

You cannot hold a fellowship, traineeship, or similar appointment administered by the University

You cannot use any University facilities or place demands on faculty

You must report your leave to ISEO

Impacts to Current Status:

Your SEVIS record will be Terminated for Authorized Early Withdrawal (F-1 students) or Completed (J-1 students) after you leave the U.S. You will be required to take action to request a valid I-20/DS-2019 before you return to the U.S. in F-1/J-1 status. Upon termination/completion of your SEVIS record, all F-1/J-1 benefits, such as travel and employment cease immediately.

SEVIS records of dependents sponsored under your visa will also be terminated. Dependents in this situation are not allowed to remain in the U.S. If you have not already left when your SEVIS record is terminated/completed, you must leave within 15 days of the termination/completion date. If you do not leave the U.S. within the stated time, you will be out of status and in the U.S. without authorization.

Understand the Process of Returning to the U.S.:

Your SEVIS record will no longer be valid for use after your SEVIS record is terminated/completed. You must re-enroll in coursework and request a valid Form I-20 or Form DS-2019 before you can re-enter the U.S. to resume your program of study.

There are two different processes for returning to the U.S. after your gap quarter(s) that depend on many factors, such as when you reported your gap quarter(s) and how many gap quarter(s) you will take. These will have different impacts on your ability to travel and participate in employment upon return. Please review the processes of returning after gap quarter(s) before you report your leave.

Report your Gap Quarter(s)

Report your Gap Quarter(s) to ISEO:

Submit a Gap Quarter Request in iServices :

Find the Changes to Enrollment category in the left menu. Choose the Gap Quarter Request option.

Choose the Gap Quarter Request option.

Prepare a PDF copy of your airline ticket or flight itinerary showing the date of your planned departure from the U.S.

Submit the required eForm. You will receive a confirmation email when your request has been successfully submitted.

ISEO has an average processing time of 10 business days . You will be notified via email when your request is complete.

Report your Gap Quarter(s) to your College Advisor (UG) or Graduate Coordinator (GR):

Undergraduate students : Discuss impacts of gap quarter(s) your college academic advisor. You may need to request a Withdrawal with your College .

Graduate students : Discuss impacts of gap quarter(s) with your graduate coordinator in your department. You may need to request a Leave of Absence with the Division of Graduate Education and Postdoctoral Affairs .

Extend your Current Gap Quarter:

If you have already reported a Gap Quarter to ISEO and wish to extend your current Gap Quarter, it is not necessary to report an extension of a Gap Quarter to ISEO. Your SEVIS record was Terminated when you originally reported your Gap Quarter to ISEO and it will remain that way un til you follow the steps to return to UC San Diego for coursework.

Be sure to communicate extending your current leave with your academic department/College (see above).

Revie w and follow o ur website for returning to UC San Diego after a Gap Quarter/Leave of Absence .

Changes to Enrollment

Academic Major Change

Reduced Course Loads (RCLs)

Program Extension

Degree Level Change

Enrollment Outside UC San Diego

Academic Disqualification and Suspension

Visa Status Violations

Regaining Status