Grants for Graduate Students

Grants for Graduate Students

The grants listed on this page are available to graduate and professional school students. The grant amounts shown here are estimates and depend on available funding.

File your FAFSA to be considered for the Cal Grant for Education Students Program (EDS), which is based on financial need.

Submit any additional documents noted below or requested by the Financial Aid and Scholarships Office.

You must meet general eligibility requirements and any additional application/eligibility requirements listed below for each grant type. Requirements for each grant may differ.

Fellowships, Scholarships, Stipends, and Fee Awards

Annual amount: Varies

Funded by: Your graduate department or an outside source

Additional Application Requirements: Contact your graduate department or the Graduate Division .

Cal Grant for Education Studies Program (EDS)

$12,570 maximum for Cal Grant A renewals

$12,570+ $1,648 maximum for Cal Grant B renewals

Funded by: State of California ( California Student Aid Commission )

Note: Amounts are set by the state government and are subject to change at any time. You must be enrolled full-time (12 or more units) by the freeze date each term to receive the full grant.

If you're enrolled in fewer than 12 units, you'll receive a reduced amount of the Cal Grant award:

6-8 units = 1/2 the amount

9-11 units = 3/4 the amount

12+ units = the full amount

Cal Grant A or B recipients who plan to enroll in UC San Diego's EDS program may be eligible for a renewal of their Cal Grant for an additional year if they meet the following requirements:

Accepted and enrolled in the EDS program within 15 months of the end of the term in which the last Cal Grant payment was received.

Seeking an initial teaching credential.

Not using the grant money for other graduate-level courses of study.

Additional Application Requirements: Submit a Request for Cal Grant Teaching Credential Program Benefits (form G-44) available from the California Student Aid Commission .

University Grant: Native American Opportunity (NAOP) Grant

Annual Amount: Varies depending upon the total amount of your gift aid. If your existing gift aid from all other sources does not cover your systemwide UC tuition and fees, the NAOP grant will make up the balance.

Funded by: University of California (UC)

To be eligible for the Native American Opportunity Grant, you must be:

A current or newly admitted University of California undergraduate, graduate or professional school student.

A California Resident.

An enrolled member of a federally recognized Native American, American Indian, and/or Alaska Native tribe.

Enrolled in a qualifying, state-funded UC degree program.

FAFSA or California Dream Act Application is required for entering students or new applicants. Existing recipients at UC San Diego will have their award automatically renewed.

NAOP applies only to the academic year (Fall, Winter, and Spring). It does not cover Summer Session charges.

For more information, visit the UC Native American Opportunity Plan .

Grants for Graduate Students

Grants for Undergraduates