Financial Support

Fellowships are one of the best ways to fund your graduate education. UC San Diego’s Division of Graduate Education and Postdoctoral Affairs encourages all graduate students to apply for fellowships.

Fellowships provide financial support for graduate students to enhance their professional development and develop into independent scholars with their own unique research agendas. Fellowships can provide mentored training experiences, fund independent research, support international travel, cover educational and living expenses, and much more. Fellowships vary in amount and support time, ranging from a couple of months to years; some awards are one-time and others are multi-year or eligible for renewal.

Please note that each applicant is responsible for determining their own individual eligibility for any fellowship. This includes but is not limited to reviewing which agencies participate in a funding opportunity announcement. Fellowship applicants should also be aware of the provisions of the award and the requirements of the opportunity. Please be aware that if the fellowship opportunity requires that you list your mentor as the Principal Investigator (PI) on the project, you will need to work with the Office of Contract & Grant Administration .

Search for Fellowships

Internal (also known as intramural) and external (also known as extramural) fellowships are advertised annually on Collab.

UCLA GRAPES is a public free fellowship database with opportunities for both graduate students and postdoctoral scholars.

ProFellow is a free external source for professional and academic fellowships, created by fellows for aspiring fellows.

Contact the Financial Support Unit via the Student Support Portal in Services & Support.

Important Information

Non Discrimination Statement : In accordance with applicable Federal and State law and University policy, the University of California does not discriminate, or grant preferences, on the basis of race, color, national origin, religion, sex, disability, and/or other protected categories. More information about Proposition 209 can be found here . More information about the University of California Anti-Discrimination Policy can be found here.

Financial Support

Fellowships Fellow Experiences ARCS Scholars Friends of the International Center Katzin Prize IDP

Fellow Experiences

Friends of the International Center

Third-Party Payments

Non-UC Visiting Grads

Financial Support FAQ

Staff Destinations