Examination Requirements

Examination Requirements

Graduate applicants may be required to submit GRE scores for consideration for certain degree programs. Some programs may require additional tests or other alternatives.

Review program-specific admissions requirements by locating departments on this page to determine which tests may be required.

Graduate Record Examination (GRE) scores

While some departments require GRE scores, many have chosen to no longer require applicants to submit GRE scores for consideration. Please visit this page to locate your program of interest, and navigate to the program-specifc admissions page to review all requirements for a complete application.

If GRE scores are required for an applicant's program of interest, it is advised to take the GRE in the fall prior to the fall term for which admission is sought. Applicants may self-report scores at the time of application submission.

When ordering your GRE score reports, use UCSD's institution code 4836. No department codes are necessary. GRE score reports are typically received electronically within 5-7 business days from the order date.

More information about the GRE may be obtained from the Educational Testing Service (ETS) website.

Other test information

Information on the CBEST may be obtained at their website or by calling (916) 928-4001.

Information on the CSET may be obtained at their website or by calling (916) 928-4003.

Information on the GMAT may be obtained at their website .

Non Discrimination Statement : In accordance with applicable Federal and State law and University policy, the University of California does not discriminate, or grant preferences, on the basis of race, color, national origin, religion, sex, disability, and/or other protected categories. More information about Proposition 209 can be found here . More information about the University of California Anti-Discrimination Policy can be found here.

Application Fee and Fee Waiver

Examination Requirements

Records & Transcripts

Statement of Purpose

International Students

Admissions Policies