Exams, Grades, & Transcripts

Academic Standing

Academic Standing

Make sure you're progressing toward a degree. Find out how to avoid academic notice and academic disqualification.

Progress toward degree

GPA requirements:

Undergraduates, you must have a cumulative GPA of 2.0 or higher to graduate.

Graduate students, you must have a cumulative GPA of 3.0 or higher to complete a degree.

Read the Academic Senate policy on progress toward a degree.

Minimum progress

Unit requirements:

Undergraduates, you must complete 36 units during any three consecutive quarters to maintain minimum progress and qualify for further registration.

Graduate students, check with your department .

Read the Academic Senate policy on minimum progress.

Undergraduates, if you don't meet the GPA or unit requirements for progress toward a degree, you will be placed on academic notice. If you have questions about academic notice, contact your college advisor .

If you have questions about academic notice, contact your college advisor .

Graduate students, check with your department .

Subject to disqualification

Undergraduates, you are considered subject to academic disqualification from further registration if at the end of any term your GPA for that term is less than 1.5, or if you have completed two successive terms on academic notice without achieving a cumulative GPA of 2.0.

Graduate students, you are considered subject to academic disqualification from further registration if: Your cumulative GPA in upper division and graduate course work taken as a graduate student is less than 3.0 OR You have more than a total of eight units of F and/or U grades. Check with your department regarding academic disqualification.

Your cumulative GPA in upper division and graduate course work taken as a graduate student is less than 3.0 OR

You have more than a total of eight units of F and/or U grades.

Check with your department regarding academic disqualification.

If you have questions, contact:

Registrar's Office , (858) 534-3144