Sexual health is an important element of well-being for people of all genders. Student Health Services (SHS) offers an array of services and resources to support sexual health and well-being including cervical cancer screening, birth control options, gender-affirming care, and testing for sexually transmitted infections (STIs) . Our information and services are evidence-based and free of judgement, so students can make the best health decisions for their own bodies and lives.

The Sexual Health Info PowerPoint is a great introduction to learn more about the reproductive system, contraception, and STIs, and is especially recommended for anyone who has never had contraception counseling and/or a gynecological exam.

Sexual Health Info PowerPoint

Making an Appointment

Many sexual and reproductive health appointments (like birth control consults, PCOS care, and urinary symptoms) can be self-scheduled online in MyStudentChart. Students can also call (858) 534-3300 to speak with a scheduler to make appointments for IUD insertion or other procedures.

Students can self-schedule STI testing with the SHS lab using MyStudentChart. No-cost pregnancy testing is also available at SHS to all students regardless of insurance.

The Health Promotion Services (HPS) team offers sexual health resources including The Condom Concierge and Sexual Health Information Sessions, which can be self-scheduled in MyStudentChart.

Reproductive Health Services

Experienced nurse practitioners and physicians provide confidential, accessible, and compassionate reproductive health care at SHS. Visit the Reproductive Health Services page to learn more about what is available. Care includes:

Cervical cancer screening

Emergency contraception

Erectile dysfunction

Gender-affirming care

Gynecological exams

Polycystic Ovary Syndrome (PCOS)

Pre-exposure prophylaxis (PrEP) and post-exposure prophylaxis (PEP)

Pregnancy options

Testosterone treatment

STIs, HIV and Testing

STIs and HIV are infections that can be spread through sexual contact. Testing for STIs and HIV is available through the SHS lab and in the community. General information about the health impacts and prevention of various STIs and HIV is available through our Health Topics menu .

Sexual Health Education

More information about STIs and HIV is available from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention .

Bacterial Vaginosis (BV): English | Spanish

Chlamydia: English | Spanish

Genital Herpes: English | Spanish

Gonorrhea: English | Spanish

Hepatitis B: English | Spanish (PDF)

Hepatitis C: English | Spanish (PDF)

HIV & AIDS: English | Spanish

Human Papillomavirus (HPV): English | Spanish

Mycoplasma genitalium (Mgen): English

Syphilis: English | Spanish

Trichomoniasis: English | Spanish

The Health Promotion Services (HPS) team also provides student-centered education on sexual and reproductive health .

UC San Diego Resources

The Condom Concierge

STRIDE – Service for Trans, Intersex, and Gender Diverse Experiences

LGBT Resource Center

CARE at the Sexual Assault Resource Center

Report Sexual Misconduct

Cost of Services

Clinical Laboratory

Gender-Affirming Care

Radiology (X-ray)

Reproductive Health

Sexual Health Testing for STI and HIV

Testing for STI and HIV

Travel Clearance