Living On Campus

Contracts & Prepayments

Contracts and Prepayments

When the housing contract is issued, you must electronically sign and make the $450 prepayment by midnight on the stated due date. You may submit your $450 prepayment via E-Check, Credit Card or payment coupon with paper check.

If you choose to "E-Check," compare one of your checks to the examples below. Find the one that most closely resembles your check and identify your ROUTING NUMBER and ACCOUNT NUMBER.

ROUTING NUMBER: 9 digits

ACCOUNT NUMBER: 4-17 digits. It may display as: A single set of numbers (examples 1 and 2) or As two sets of numbers (example 3 – used by Bank of America)

A single set of numbers (examples 1 and 2) or

As two sets of numbers (example 3 – used by Bank of America)

NOTE: Do NOT include the CHECK NUMBER as part of the ACCOUNT NUMBER.

Not sure? Contact your bank or use your bank statement to verify your ACCOUNT NUMBER.

Please note: The Room Selection housing prepayment E-Check process is different and completely separate from the TritonLink billing system (where you currently pay your monthly university billing statement). You will not be able to use any of your currently saved TritonLink E-Check payment profiles to submit your housing prepayment. Please review the Room Selection E-Check instructions carefully to ensure that you have everything you’ll need to complete this step.

By using E-Check, you can electronically submit your $450 prepayment. Make sure you have your bank’s routing number and your checking account number. When you have completed making your E-Check payment, you will receive a separate email from the vendor with a confirmation number. Please make sure to keep this number. Your funds will be debited from your checking account within 2-5 business days if the process is successful.

If your E-Check payment is unable to be processed, you will receive an email from the vendor indicating that you will need to correct the error and remake your payment. The Housing Administrative Services Office may also contact you if there are issues with your E-Check payment.

If you choose to "Pay by Credit Card," you will be charged a 2.85% Service Fee for processing your payment. This means that the Service Fee amount is calculated based on 2.85% of your total payment amount. The 2.85% Service Fee is added to your payment and will appear as a separate item on your credit or debit card statement. The Service Fee is not a fee assessed by your institution. The Service Fee is not refundable, even if the payment to which it relates is canceled, refunded, credited or charged back. By using this service you agree to pay the service fee . You should receive a confirmation email from QuikPay Online Services with a confirmation number, to the email address provided during the Credit Card process .  If you do not receive a confirmation of payment via email, you did not complete the process.  Please double check to ensure you completed this step .

By signing the Housing Contract electronically, you are agreeing to abide by the terms and conditions set forth in the Housing Contract which are legally binding for the entire 2026-2027 Academic Year.

We highly recommend that you also print out a copy of the housing contract (available during the housing contract process).

Housing Contract Cancellation Policy 2026-2027

Completed Housing Contracts include an electronic signature and housing prepayment. Residents who wish to cancel their housing contract before their contract start must submit their cancellation online via the Housing Portal. The Cancellation will be effective upon receipt of the notice. A confirmation email will be sent to the student after it is processed. Students who cancel their 2025-26 housing contract will lose their guarantee for housing in the 2026-27 academic year.

2026-27 Housing Cancellation Policy

IMPORTANT: This Cancellation Policy no longer applies after you check in and obtain your keys or after your rental agreement start date, whichever occurs first. Contract Termination Policies (See "Termination Policy," in Housing Contract) apply thereafter.

Deadlines & Details

Additional Housing

Application Process

Contracts & Prepayments

Housing Neighborhood Previews