Policies & Procedures

Repetition of Courses

Repetition of Courses

A program may require repetition of a course/s in the following instances: To meet a program's minimum grade requirement in a (required) course. To repeat failed/unsatisfactory units of research (ex. 299), in particular when the student has exceeded the allowable number of F/U units (above 8 units), resulting in academic probation. Repeating the appropriate number of F/U units will return the student to good standing.

To meet a program's minimum grade requirement in a (required) course.

To repeat failed/unsatisfactory units of research (ex. 299), in particular when the student has exceeded the allowable number of F/U units (above 8 units), resulting in academic probation. Repeating the appropriate number of F/U units will return the student to good standing.

A graduate student assigned a grade of D, F, or U only may request to repeat the course on the same grading basis for which it was first taken.

Degree credit for the course will be given only once, but the grade assigned for each enrollment shall be permanently recorded.

Both the original letter grade and the letter grade received in the repetition will be used in calculating the student's cumulative GPA.

Complete and submit online form to the Graduate Education and Postdoctoral Affairs prior to or during the quarter of enrollment in the course to be repeated.

Request to Repeat a Course

Non Discrimination Statement : In accordance with applicable Federal and State law and University policy, the University of California does not discriminate, or grant preferences, on the basis of race, color, national origin, religion, sex, disability, and/or other protected categories. More information about Proposition 209 can be found here . More information about the University of California Anti-Discrimination Policy can be found here.

Policies & Procedures

Academic Standing & Probation

Duplication of Degree

Repetition of Courses

Transferring Credit

Graduate Program Reviews