Scholar Services

Travel and Visa Application

Change of Status

Applying for Change of Status

If already in the U.S. and applying for a change of status, d iscuss your situation with your Scholar Advisor at the International Services and Engagement Office (ISEO).

What is the difference between filing online vs. paper version?

I-539 Online Filing

I-539 Paper Filing

Each applicant would be required to pay the filing fee (can be costly for multiple family members)

Only one application fee for multiple applicants/family members

Get your application into USCIS' processing queue faster than mail delivery

Mail your application to USCIS using courier services such as FedEx or USPS tracking

Ensure you are using the correct version of the form

Remember to verify you are using the correct version before submitting the I-539

Communicate with USCIS directly using MyUSCIS account , without sending or receiving paper mail

Remember to check mail for receipt notices and you can check case status online using the receipt notice number

I-539 supporting documentation can be uploaded online

Remember to submit the I-539 supporting documentation per the I-539 instructions

The start date usually coincides/matches approval or requested start date; Note: F-1 STEM OPT or OPT Change of status applicants may want to have new status start the day after EAD expiration

The start date usually coincides/matches approval or requested start date;

Note: F-1 STEM OPT or OPT Change of status applicants may want to have new status start the day after EAD expiration

The start date usually coincides/matches approval or requested start date; Note: F-1 STEM OPT or OPT Change of status applicants may want to have the new status start the day after EAD expiration

The start date usually coincides/matches approval or requested start date;

Note: F-1 STEM OPT or OPT Change of status applicants may want to have the new status start the day after EAD expiration

Online filing typically offers a small discount, see https://www.uscis.gov/g-1055 to view fee(s).

See https://www.uscis.gov/g-1055 to view fee(s).

Checklist for Paper Submission

Signed Form I-539 : Visit the USCIS I-539 page to complete the latest version of Form I-539

Payment for Form I-539 : Review the filing fee in amount indicated on the USCIS website instructions . Note: there is no additonal fee for Form I-539A.

Note: there is no additonal fee for Form I-539A.

Signed Form I-539A (if applicable): If more there will be more than one dependent changing status, complete form I-539A for each additional applicant after the first applicant. Visit the USCIS website to complete the latest version of Form I-539A for each additional individual.

Signed Form I-907 (If including Premium Processing) : visit the USCIS I-907 page to complete the latest version of Form I-907

Payment for the Form I-907 Filing Fee (If including Premium Processing) : Review the filing fee in amount indicated on the USCIS website instructions . Note: there is no additonal premium processing fee necessary for Form I-539A.

Note: there is no additonal premium processing fee necessary for Form I-539A.

Evidence for each applicant Passport Page : Most recent passport biographical page with date of expiration at least 6 months in the future Most Recent I-94 Record : I-94 admission record from the CBP website or paper version if entered a land border Visa Stamp : Most recent U.S. visa stamp in passport (Except Canadians) Entry Stamp : Most recent U.S. entry stamp, if given one Immigration Documents (as applicable): Employment Authorization Card (EAD), if any I-612 Waiver Document (if applicable) ALL I-20s (if applicable) ALL DS-2019s (if applicable) ALL I-797 approval notices H, L, O, TN (if applicable) If you are currently in a dependent status (ex. F2) you will also need all of your primary (F1) visa holders documentation For Dependents (proof of relationship to principle applicant): Marriage Certificate: for spouse as of relationship to principle visa holder Birth Certificate: for children under 21 as proof of relationship to principle status holder

Passport Page : Most recent passport biographical page with date of expiration at least 6 months in the future

Most Recent I-94 Record : I-94 admission record from the CBP website or paper version if entered a land border

Visa Stamp : Most recent U.S. visa stamp in passport (Except Canadians)

Entry Stamp : Most recent U.S. entry stamp, if given one

Immigration Documents (as applicable): Employment Authorization Card (EAD), if any I-612 Waiver Document (if applicable) ALL I-20s (if applicable) ALL DS-2019s (if applicable) ALL I-797 approval notices H, L, O, TN (if applicable) If you are currently in a dependent status (ex. F2) you will also need all of your primary (F1) visa holders documentation

Employment Authorization Card (EAD), if any

I-612 Waiver Document (if applicable)

ALL I-20s (if applicable)

ALL DS-2019s (if applicable)

ALL I-797 approval notices H, L, O, TN (if applicable)

If you are currently in a dependent status (ex. F2) you will also need all of your primary (F1) visa holders documentation

For Dependents (proof of relationship to principle applicant): Marriage Certificate: for spouse as of relationship to principle visa holder Birth Certificate: for children under 21 as proof of relationship to principle status holder

Marriage Certificate: for spouse as of relationship to principle visa holder

Birth Certificate: for children under 21 as proof of relationship to principle status holder

File an I-539 application to change your status to J-1; include I-539A supplement for any dependents.

ISEO will need to issue you a DS-2019 in order for you to apply for a change of status to J-1 status with USCIS. Please make sure you pay your SEVIS fee before applying for the change of status.

You will need to work closely with your department and ISEO advisor while your change of status is pending, once you have submitted your application to USCIS; please email us your tracking number so that we can also keep track of your case status and amend your J-1 program dates if necessary.

Once your application is approved, please email ISEO a copy of your I-797 Approval Notice which will include your J-1 I-94 at the bottom of the approval notice.

To change status to H-1B, please contact your UC San Diego department so that they may assist you to initiate the process.

If you have additional questions regarding timing, fees, and your eligibility to change to H-1B status contact us by visiting icontact.ucsd.edu .

To change status to H-4 please see our H-4 Resources page for detailed instructions.

Travel and Visa Application

Difference Between Status and Visa

Apply for a U.S. Visa

Tips for Your Visa Interview

Visa and Travel Incident Reporting

Travel & Re-Entry

Travel Signature Request Form

Change of Status