Student Services

Travel and Visa Application

Check in for SEVIS Activation

Check-In for I-20/DS-2019 Activation

(This page has a friendly link that's easy to remember: iCheckin . ucsd.edu )

In order for international students to comply with Student and Exchange Visitor Program (SEVP) regulations, ISEO r equires students who hold an Initial SEVIS record to submit the Check-In for I-20 or DS-2019 Activation Request once they arrive to the United States. Activation of the SEVIS record allows students to remain in the U.S. and continue to maintain F or J status.

DUE DATE TO SUBMIT: 10 Days after Arrival to U.S.

PLEASE NOTE: Your SEVIS Form I-20/DS-2019 may be activated after your program start date on your I-20/DS-2019. This will not negatively affect your SEVIS record or visa status. Upon successful submission of this request, ISEO will submit your registration/validation to SEVIS for record activation.

Students who submit this form will not receive an updated I-20 or DS-2019 reflecting the action taken on their SEVIS record. An advisor will contact you directly if more information is needed to complete your request. If you have submitted your Check-In Form, there is no need to follow up on it.

Confirm if you need to Check-In

If you meet all of the following, you are required to submit this form:

Initial I-20/DS-2019 from UC San Diego: F-1 Students: "Form Issue Reason" on page 1 of your most recently issued I-20 states: Initial Attendance Transfer Pending Change of Educational Level -OR- J-1 Students: 'Purpose of this form' on page 1 of your most recently issued DS-2019 states: Begin New Program Transferred

F-1 Students: "Form Issue Reason" on page 1 of your most recently issued I-20 states: Initial Attendance Transfer Pending Change of Educational Level -OR-

Initial Attendance

Transfer Pending

Change of Educational Level -OR-

J-1 Students: 'Purpose of this form' on page 1 of your most recently issued DS-2019 states: Begin New Program Transferred

Begin New Program

Program Start Date : Your program start date listed on the first page of your I-20/DS-2019 is in the future or is within the first 2 weeks of the quarter of entry.

Location: You are physically located inside of the U.S. If you have not yet entered, wait to submit this form until after you enter the U.S.

Arrival Record: You are able to show proof of last entry into the U.S. by uploading an electronic Form I-94 .

Submit the Check-In Form to ISEO

The deadline to submit this form is no later than 10 days after your arrival to the U.S. Ensure that you've logged into Tritonlink and have updated your current address (U.S. address), your Permanent Address (foreign/home country address), and also your emergency contact information.

Submit a Check-In Request in iServices :

Find the Student Check-In category in the left menu. Choose the Check-In Request option according to your visa status.

Choose the Check-In Request option according to your visa status.

If asked, upload a PDF copy of your Electronic Form I-94 and SEVIS Fee Payment confirmation .

If you have changed status to F-1 or J-1 from outside the U.S., prepare a PDF copy of your I-797 Approval Notice.

Upon successful submission of this request, ISEO will submit your registration/validation to SEVIS for record activation.

Note that students who submit this request will not receive an updated I-20 or DS-2019.

ISEO has an average processing time of 10 business days .

An advisor will contact you directly if more information is needed to complete your request.

Early Departure or Late Arrivals

What if I depart the U.S. after my submission of the Check-In Request?

If at any time after submission of this form, you depart the U.S., log into Tritonlink and update your current address to a foreign/home country address to let us know you’ve departed. Review the Registrar's Office instructions on how to enter a foreign address in TritonLink .

What if I am unable to arrive to the U.S. by the quarter start date listed on my I-20/DS-2019?

If you are unable to arrive to the U.S. by the deadline to add coursework for the quarter start date listed on your document, do not submit the Check-In Request . Instead, login to iServices and find the Starting a New Program UC San Diego Menu Category. Submit the New Admit Updated I-20 Request or New Admit Updated DS-2019 Request and choose the " Updated Program Start Date Information " option so that ISEO can adjust your program start date to the quarter you intend to enter the U.S.

Travel and Visa Application

Visa Application

International Travel

Travel Signature

Check in for SEVIS Activation

Visa Delays and Denials