University Undergraduate Loans

University Undergraduate Loans

Offered and distributed by UC San Diego, university loans may be available to eligible undergraduates.

Amount: $400 to $5,500 per year, depending on your need

Aggregate Limits: $11,000 for a student who has not completed two academic years of undergraduate work. $27,000 for an undergraduate student who has completed two academic years and is pursuing a bachelor's degree.

Need-based/subsidized?: Yes. No interest accrues during in-school, grace, and authorized deferment periods. You begin paying interest after you leave school, or when your grace/ deferment period ends.

Offered and disbursed by: UC San Diego

Interest rate: 5% fixed

Repayment of principal and interest begins 9 months after your full-time or half-time enrollment ends.

To borrow the University Loan

File your FAFSA or California Dream Act Application and provide any requested documents before the deadlines.

File your FAFSA or California Dream Act Application and provide any requested documents before the deadlines.

UC San Diego determines who is offered a University Loan which are displayed and can be accepted in the “Selection” column within the Manage Awards drawer of the Financial Aid and Scholarships Student Portal.

UC San Diego determines who is offered a University Loan which are displayed and can be accepted in the “Selection” column within the Manage Awards drawer of the Financial Aid and Scholarships Student Portal.

If accepted, additional requirements pertaining to this type of loan are handled directly between the borrower and Heartland ECSI .

If accepted, additional requirements pertaining to this type of loan are handled directly between the borrower and Heartland ECSI .

Once all of the requirements have been completed the turnaround time for Heartland ECSI to notify UC San Diego is approximately 3 to 5 business days.

Once all of the requirements have been completed the turnaround time for Heartland ECSI to notify UC San Diego is approximately 3 to 5 business days.

Loan funds will be credited to your UC San Diego student account (read more about how you get your money ).

Loan funds will be credited to your UC San Diego student account (read more about how you get your money ).

If you've been offered Federal Work-Study but don't plan to work, you may ask the Financial Aid and Scholarships Office in writing to switch your Federal Work-Study to a University loan (if funding is available).

Please note that federal student loans are available to most students regardless of income and provide a range of repayment options including income-based repayment plans and loan forgiveness benefits, which other education loans are not required to provide.

Remember: Borrowing money is a serious responsibility. All loans must be repaid with interest .

Before you borrow, pursue outside agency scholarships as early as possible.

File your 2026-27 FAFSA or California Dream Act Application by the March 2 priority deadline to be considered for the best types of financial aid.

Submit any additional documents requested by the Financial Aid and Scholarships Office before the May 1 deadline for continuing students and June 15 for new entering students.

Review the undergraduate eligibility requirements to make sure you're eligible to receive loans (or any other types of financial aid).

If you are not eligible or have exhausted federal loan possibilities, you may consider private loan programs , but be aware that these loans may have higher interest rates , fewer repayment options and you may have to meet additional requirements, such as having an approved co-signer.

Read more about loans and about the Federal Direct Loan Program .

Please note: If you accept a Title IV loan, the loan(s) will be submitted to the National Student Loan Data System (NSLDS) and will be accessible to guaranty agencies, lenders, and schools designated as authorized users of the data system.

Repaying Your Loan

Private Education Loan Programs

Federal Direct Loans

California Dream Loans

University Undergraduate Loans

Short-Term Emergency Loans

Receiving Your Loan