Scholar Services

iServices Instructions for Scholars

Separation/Departure/Transfer Out

Separation, Early Departure, or Transferring Out

First Confirm You No Longer Require UCSD Sponsorship

Please be careful when submitting a J-1 early departure request and make sure you are actually ending your J-1 status. You will have a 30-day grace period in which to depart the U.S. or change to a different visa status.

A J-1 program should NOT be shortened in the following situations:

You are moving to a different department at UCSD. Instead, your department needs to submit a J-1 Amendment. Please speak to your department contact regarding having this completed.

You are moving to a different department at UCSD.

Instead, your department needs to submit a J-1 Amendment. Please speak to your department contact regarding having this completed.

Instead, your department needs to submit a J-1 Amendment. Please speak to your department contact regarding having this completed.

You will be Out of Country (such as during an approved leave of absence from your position at UC San Diego) and intend to return to the same J-1 program. Instead, an Out of Country Notification should be submitted.

You will be Out of Country (such as during an approved leave of absence from your position at UC San Diego) and intend to return to the same J-1 program.

Instead, an Out of Country Notification should be submitted.

Instead, an Out of Country Notification should be submitted.

You are transferring your J-1 record to a different institution . Instead, an ISEO advisor needs to coordinate that transfer and will update your J-1 program dates. Please follow the instructions below to complete the J-1 Scholar Transfer Out Request form in iServices.

You are transferring your J-1 record to a different institution .

Instead, an ISEO advisor needs to coordinate that transfer and will update your J-1 program dates.

Instead, an ISEO advisor needs to coordinate that transfer and will update your J-1 program dates.

Please follow the instructions below to complete the J-1 Scholar Transfer Out Request form in iServices.

Please follow the instructions below to complete the J-1 Scholar Transfer Out Request form in iServices.

You are changing to H-1B status at UCSD . ISEO staff will update the J-1 program dates when working on the H-1B.

You are changing to H-1B status at UCSD .

ISEO staff will update the J-1 program dates when working on the H-1B.

ISEO staff will update the J-1 program dates when working on the H-1B.

If you are an H-1B employee and ending your employment at UCSD earlier than the end date of your H-1B approval notice, your H-1B petition must be withdrawn. Please be careful when submitting an H-1B early departure.

An H-1B program should NOT be shortened in the following situations :

You are moving to a different department or appointment title at UCSD. Instead, an H-1B Amendment should be submitted by your department.

You are moving to a different department or appointment title at UCSD.

Instead, an H-1B Amendment should be submitted by your department.

Instead, an H-1B Amendment should be submitted by your department.

You are doing a Leave of Absence and intend to remain an employee of UCSD .

You are doing a Leave of Absence and intend to remain an employee of UCSD .

I f the department initiated an H-1B employee's separation from employment, the department must offer to cover the reasonable cost of return transportation to the employee's home country (this does not include dependents); see H-1B Early Termination Memo .

iServices Request Processing:

Log in to iServices

Access iServices through either of the following:

"Full Client Services" Portal: (UCSD email account/Network ID)

Scholars with Network ID's will utilize their Active Directory credentials to access iServices via Duo Two-Step Log In.

Network ID is typically the first half the UCSD email: kingtriton @ucsd.edu

Network ID is typically the first half the UCSD email: kingtriton @ucsd.edu

The UCSD VPN creates a virtual private connection over public networks using encryption and other security checks to help protect against computer data transmission interception.

The UCSD VPN creates a virtual private connection over public networks using encryption and other security checks to help protect against computer data transmission interception.

YOU MUST BE ON VPN IF YOU ARE ACCESSING THE PORTAL WITH A WIRELESS CONNECTION OR NOT ON CAMPUS USING ETHERNET.

YOU MUST BE ON VPN IF YOU ARE ACCESSING THE PORTAL WITH A WIRELESS CONNECTION OR NOT ON CAMPUS USING ETHERNET.

" Limited Services" Portal (No UCSD email account/Network ID)

iServices ID numb e r

iServices ID numb e r

Limited Access Pin number

Limited Access Pin number

VPN NOT REQUIRED TO ACCESS

VPN NOT REQUIRED TO ACCESS

J-1 Scholar Transfer Out Request

Completing the Transfer Out Request Form

Please first make sure you have notified your department contact prior to submitting this form.

When completing this form, we will need the following information. Please make sure to have it available:

Destination Institution Details:

Name of the institution

Contact details of the other institution's international scholar advisor

Institution Program Number The J-1 SEVIS program number (NOT your SEVIS number) will appear similar to P-X-XXXXX.

The J-1 SEVIS program number (NOT your SEVIS number) will appear similar to P-X-XXXXX.

Your institution may have additional forms to provide us: ECFMG Category Change Request Form For ECFMG transfers only Please be sure to provide your USMLE number Destination Institution Transfer Form (if applicable)

ECFMG Category Change Request Form For ECFMG transfers only Please be sure to provide your USMLE number

For ECFMG transfers only

Please be sure to provide your USMLE number

Destination Institution Transfer Form (if applicable)

Immigration Information:

Confirm that you HAVE NOT received a US Department of State letter for a favorable recommendation for a waiver and that you DO NOT have any petition for permanent residency pending. If either of these are applicable to you, please contact ischolars@ucsd.edu to discuss alternative options.

If either of these are applicable to you, please contact ischolars@ucsd.edu to discuss alternative options.

Resignation Letter

Required for UC San Diego employees and scholars being paid by the institution

Processing Information:

The standing processing time is 15 business days.

Please notify us if you plan to travel outside of the U.S. while the transfer is pending.

Please have the following ready when completing this form:

Current end date J-1 Scholars: Found on your DS-2019 Employment-Based Scholars: Found on your I-797 Approval Notice

J-1 Scholars: Found on your DS-2019

Employment-Based Scholars: Found on your I-797 Approval Notice

Requested new end date For paid scholars, this should be the last day on UC San Diego payroll

For paid scholars, this should be the last day on UC San Diego payroll

Your letter of resignation This should be the letter or email that you provided to your department to notify them you will be departing early

This should be the letter or email that you provided to your department to notify them you will be departing early

Name and email of departmental contact who can confirm your early departure

Submitting a Separation/Early Departure will end UCSD's sponsorship of your visa status on that new end date. If you are not transferring your visa status to another institution or changing to a different status or permanent residency, you will have to depart the U.S.

You should be aware of information on the J-1 grace period or H-1B grace period .

If you shorten the program to a new end date that is in the future and then change plans, please make sure to notify ISEO immediately .

iServices Instructions for Scholars

Initial J-1 Requests

J-1 Extension Request

H-1B/E-3/TN Initial Requests

H-1B/E-3/TN Extension/Amendment Requests

Register with ISEO

J-1 Scholar Insurance Verification

J-1/J-2 Travel Signature

J-1 Scholar Out of Country Notification

Update Contact Information

Replacement DS-2019

J-1 Student Intern

J-1 Occasional Lecture/Consultation

Separation/Departure/Transfer Out

Change to Permanent Residency

Other Status Registration