Frequently Asked Questions

Looking for answers?

We’ve got you covered! Check out responses to some of our most-asked questions below.

Still need help? Visit our Contact Us page for ways to get in touch.

Applying for Financial Aid

How do I apply for financial aid? Am I eligible?

Students who are eligible can apply for financial aid every year by completing the annual FAFSA or California Dream Act application . Review the FAFSA eligibility and CADAA eligibility requirements as outlined on their respective websites to see if you qualify.

If you are eligible to complete the FAFSA or CADAA, you’ll want to complete your application prior to the March 2 priority deadline each year to ensure you are considered for the best possible funding available.

Do I have to apply for financial aid every year?

Yes, you must complete a FAFSA or California Dream Act Application each year. The applications generally become available in October for the next academic year. For more information on when the applications are available and the priority filing deadlines for the current year, please visit our Applying page .

When is the deadline to apply for financial aid?

March 2 is the priority deadline for state, institutional aid (grant/loan) and work-study consideration. If the priority filing deadline has passed, you can still complete the application at any time during the academic year for federal aid consideration. For more information on when the applications are available and the priority filing deadlines for the current year please visit our Applying page .

Do I need to complete a loan promissory note for a federal loan each year?

No. Your Master Promissory Note (MPN) for your federal loans is generally good for 10 years. You may only need to complete this document one time based on your years in school.

How do I apply for a federal student loan?

An annual FAFSA must be completed and on file with our school. Federal student loans are offered and can be accepted via the student’s online award offer on the Financial Aid and Scholarships student portal . A Master Promissory Note (MPN) and Entrance Loan Counseling will need to be completed for the loan to pay out.

Receiving Your Financial Aid

How do I accept my financial aid?

Log into the Financial Aid and Scholarships student portal and navigate to the financial aid page by going to the section “Financial Tools” and then “Financial Aid.” There, you will have access to your award offer for the academic year.

You will be given the option to accept or decline the awards offered to you.

After you have reviewed your awards and approve/decline each award, make sure to click the orange button to complete the acceptance process.

How do I know if I need to submit additional documents?

You can see if additional documents are required through the Financial Aid and Scholarships (FAS) student portal .

Go to the section “Financial Tools” and then select “Financial Aid” to get to your award offer.

Review the “ Required Documents” and “Tasks” area for details on forms or documents that are needed.

If nothing is listed in this section, that generally means your file is complete.

You should also check your UC San Diego email address often to ensure you don’t miss any important updates or notifications for additional required information.

When do I get my financial aid money?

Financial aid disburses about 10 days before instruction begins at the start of each new quarter. If your financial aid file is complete and you’re enrolled in units for the quarter (12 units to ensure full disbursement; waitlisted units do not count), then you can expect any remaining financial aid refund to reach your student account around the first week of instruction each quarter. For more refund questions please visit Student Financial Solutions’ refund webpage .

Why haven’t the loans I accepted disbursed?

Beginning in 2026-27: You must be enrolled in 12 or more units to receive the full amount of your loan each term.

How do I set up direct deposit?

Direct deposit information can be found online .

What happens to the financial aid that is left over after my fees are paid?

If all your fees are paid, and if a credit balance is created, you can expect leftover funds to be refunded by Student Financial Solutions (SFS). You have the choice of setting up direct deposit or receiving a paper check. We strongly recommend signing up for Direct Deposit . For more information on refunds, please visit the SFS refunds webpage .

How will my private loan be disbursed?

Private loans are certified by our office and are set to disburse a third of the loan amount at the beginning of each quarter.

If I’m not enrolled full-time, will my financial aid be affected?

If you are not enrolled full-time and you’re a Pell Grant or Cal Grant recipient, your financial aid will pay less, based on the number of units in which you’re enrolled. If you have at least six units, you can expect your student loans to pay.

Beginning in 2026-27: You must be enrolled in 12 or more units to receive the full amount of your loan each term. Your loan may be paid at a lower amount, based on the number of units you are enrolled in or future loan disbursements may be reduced based on less than full-time enrollment.

If I do not accept my loan, can I accept it at a later date?

Yes, you have the option to decline your loan now and then accept it later. You can accept your student loans up until just before the end of the school year (generally mid-May).

Beginning in 2026-27: You must be enrolled in 12 or more units to receive the full amount of your loan each term.

What will my cost of attendance be?

For a breakdown of expected costs, visit the Cost of Attendance page and choose your undergraduate cohort or graduate program and the academic year for which you need to estimate your cost of attendance.

What if my financial aid doesn’t cover my fees?

If your financial aid is not enough to cover your fees, you can take advantage of our payment plan option: Triton Registration Installment Plan (TRIP) . TRIP allows you to break up your remaining balance into monthly payments each quarter. For questions on TRIP, please contact Student Financial Solutions .

I am going through a financial emergency. Can I get help?

Please stop by our office and speak to a counselor during our office hours . We do have ways to assist you or we can put you in touch with the right resources to assist you.

I am expecting to receive outside assistance (scholarships, fellowships, loans, etc.). How will these affect my financial aid?

If you receive scholarships, keep in mind that the scholarship money has to be accounted for in your annual estimated Cost of Attendance . Your other financial awards may be replaced with scholarship money, first reducing any unmet need in your financial aid package, then your other awards in the following order going against your financial need: university loan, work-study, parent PLUS loan, student loans, grants. Generally any scholarship money that replaces a loan reduces your future loan debt.

Where do I mail scholarship checks?

Scholarship checks should be mailed to the following address:

TritonPay Office Attn: Scholarships Student Services Center, Suite 170 9500 Gilman Drive 0009 La Jolla, CA 92093-0009

I’m an undergraduate student and have my own health insurance. How does that work with financial aid?

Financial Aid and Scholarships will post initial financial aid offers in mid-summer on in the Financial Aid and Scholarships portal Financial Aid to cover UC SHIP will not be included in your aid offer initially .

After the UC SHIP waiver period ends for the Fall quarter, the Financial Aid and Scholarships Office will update aid offers for students who remained enrolled in UC SHIP. The type of aid offered to cover this cost can vary from student to student. For example:

Students offered only loan(s) may be offered additional loan to assist with the UC SHIP cost.

Undergraduate students who meet all of the following criteria may receive a UC SHIP grant to assist with a portion of the UC SHIP cost: Student must be enrolled in UC SHIP; California Resident or meet AB540 eligibility criteria; Met financial aid priority filing and document submission deadlines; Pell eligible with a Student Aid Index equal to or less than 7,395; Enrolled in at least 6 units as of the quarterly freeze date ; Student must have sufficient financial need in their aid offer; Pursuing first baccalaureate degree.

Student must be enrolled in UC SHIP;

California Resident or meet AB540 eligibility criteria;

Met financial aid priority filing and document submission deadlines;

Pell eligible with a Student Aid Index equal to or less than 7,395;

Enrolled in at least 6 units as of the quarterly freeze date ;

Student must have sufficient financial need in their aid offer;

Pursuing first baccalaureate degree.

What happens if I waive out of UC SHIP?

What is Blue and Gold?

What housing status will be used to create my financial aid package?

The campus will project student’s housing status to generate financial aid offers in the Financial Aid and Scholarships portal . Prior to sending out initial offers, the Financial Aid and Scholarships Office plans to reach out to students to submit a form clarifying their expected housing status for the upcoming school year. When reviewing financial aid offers, it will be important for students to notify our office of housing changes related to moving between on-campus, off-campus and living with parents.

How do I change my housing status to adjust my financial aid offer?

With initial offers available on the Financial Aid and Scholarships portal , students need to submit a request through the UC San Diego Services & Support Portal to update their housing status.

To ensure timely processing, under the drop down field “More Specifically…” Please select “FAS Housing Status Validation.” Students will be sent an email once the portal is updated with aid offers. Please note that the housing status is subject to validation.

Is there any validation of housing status?

Yes, the Financial Aid and Scholarships Office may compare the self-reported university housing status to records from the Housing, Dining and Hospitality Office (HDH) and may contact students in the event that records don’t match.

What happens if my initial offer is on-campus, but I live off-campus or with my parents?

The UC San Diego Financial Aid and Scholarships Office (FAS) will receive regular updates from the Housing, Dining and Hospitality Office (HDH) of those who will change to living on-campus or moving off-campus. Based on these updates we will notify students if and when their financial aid offer is updated on the Financial Aid and Scholarships student portal .

I switched from on-campus housing to off-campus (and not with my parents). Will my financial aid change?

Yes, it will change slightly. The cost associated with off-campus housing is included for financial aid. See the current Undergraduate Cost of Attendance charts to compare total costs for the year.

If I’m a Resident Advisor, will my financial aid be impacted?

Your future financial aid may be impacted. The annual FAFSA and CADAA require students to report their prior, prior year calendar year income and untaxed income, including wages and room and/or board compensation, which, in turn, may impact your financial aid eligibility.

For example, for students filing the 2026-27 financial aid application, students must report their 2024 calendar year wages and the value of their 2024 calendar year room and board. The Financial Aid and Scholarships Office will annually email students identified by Campus Housing with instructions and the amount to enter on their application, which, along with the other information reported, will be used to generate the annual financial aid offer for the upcoming school year.

Does a change in my housing status affect my financial aid?

Military-Affiliated Students

Who can I talk to about Veteran (VA) questions?

Parents and Families

How do I apply for a federal parent loan (PLUS)?

To apply for a PLUS loan, visit the Federal Student Aid website . The parent can request a loan amount up to the Parental Contribution amount that’s listed on the award offer.

How much can I apply for in a federal parent loan (PLUS)?

Beginning in 2026-27, new Parent PLUS loan borrowers will be subject to new loan limits under the One Big Beautiful Bill Act. The new law places a $20,000 per year cap per dependent student and a $65,000 aggregate limit per dependent student (without regard to amounts forgiven, repaid, canceled, or discharged).

Parents who have borrowed federal parent PLUS loans for their student prior to July 1, 2026 and the student is in the same academic program may be eligible to borrow more than the $20,000 limit for new borrowers.

Federal regulations are still to be finalized. Please follow our federal updates page for more information.

I applied for a parent loan. How will I know when it’s been processed?

Parents are notified via email by the U.S. Department of Education to let them know whether or not the loan was approved. Once you receive the decision email, you can expect the parent loan to start to pay once financial aid disbursement begins for the academic year (about 10 days before instruction begins each term). The parent must complete a Parent PLUS Master Promissory Note before any money will be disbursed.

If my parent loan is denied, what other financial aid options do I have?

What is a private education loan?

Private education loans (aka Alternative Loans, Private Loans, Private Student Loans) are education loans offered by banks, credit unions, state agencies, or schools. These loans have fixed or variable interest rates. They can be stricter than their federal counterparts since they are offered by individual organizations. Federal loans might offer more flexible repayment plans whereas private education loans tend to be more rigid. It’s important to thoroughly research and plan before making any decisions.

Private education loans can help bridge the gap between your cost of attendance and other financial aid, which can benefit you, if borrowed carefully .

Applications for private education loans are credit-based and most require a co-signer to ensure approval with the best interest rates and terms.

Interest rates, repayment terms, lender credibility, and customer service are a few of the important factors to consider when making your selection.

What is a co-signer?

For the definition of a co-signer visit our Financial Aid Terms webpage.

A co-signer applies for the loan, just like the borrower. If their credit meets or exceeds the lender’s requirements, it can help the borrower qualify for a lower interest rate.

How do I qualify for a private education loan?

Lenders have their own application and loan requirements. Before applying, contact the lender or lenders for eligibility criteria to see if you are likely to qualify.

What should I know before I take out a private loan?

Before you take out a private loan, ask yourself a few questions:

Did I complete and submit a Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) or a California Dream Act Application (CADAA) ?

Have I borrowed all of my Federal Direct student loans , my California Dream loans , or other loans awarded to me by the school? If I did not borrow these loans, then why not?

What is a private education loan ?

How are private education loans different from a Federal Direct student loan , a California Dream Loan , or other loans awarded to me by the school?

Will I need a co-signer to apply for a private education loan? Do I have a co-signer if I need one? For the definition of a co-signer visit our Financial Aid Terms webpage.

How much can I borrow?

What questions should I ask potential lenders before applying for a private education loan?

What is the annual percentage rate?

Is the interest rate variable or fixed? If it’s variable, how often does it change? How much does it change each time? What is the maximum interest rate?

Are there fees charged on the loan?

What is the minimum amount I can borrow?

What is the maximum amount I can borrow?

What are the repayment and forbearance options?

Does the lender have enrollment requirements? (i.e., enrollment less than half-time is not accepted)

Does the lender require students to be meeting the school’s Satisfactory Academic Progress (SAP) requirements?

What other requirements should I be aware of before borrowing?

Does the lender have a minimum loan amount?

Can I cancel the loan any time?

I’m an international student. Can I apply for a private education loan?

Can I apply for a private education loan any time?

Yes, most lenders allow you to apply at any time during the academic year and some lenders allow you to apply after the end of the academic year. Your eligibility for the loan may depend on your enrollment status and if you are meeting the school’s Satisfactory Academic Progress (SAP) requirements, so be mindful of your lender’s requirements.

How do I find a private education loan lender?

Choosing a private education loan program is a personal decision based on your needs. To select a loan product that best fits your needs, you can start by checking out the UC System list of lenders to assist you. It allows you to compare lenders that specialize in your area of study, rates, and conditions. There are various comparison sites available such as Credible , Private Student Loans , Nerd Wallet , and others. Comparison sites enable you to view and compare multiple private loan opportunities in one place. There are many things to keep in mind, read more Student Loan Comparison Sites - Finaid .

Are private education loans backed by the federal government?

No. Private education loans are not covered or backed by the federal government. And private education loans are not part of the federal student loan programs. Federal student loans are under the federal government while private education loans are owned by the financial institution that granted them.

What is the difference between a federal student loan, a private education loan, a California Dream Loan, and other loans offered by the school?

The three main types of student loans are:

Federal student loans : These loans are funded by the federal government. To apply for these loans, you must first complete the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA). May offer lower interest rates and interest rates are fixed May offer better terms, especially, the repayment plans Borrowing limits are lower The interest does not accrue on the federal subsidized loan during in-school, grace, and authorized deferment periods. Federal student loans do not require a credit check or cosigner Payments are usually deferred until after you graduate Click on comparison chart for a more in-depth comparison

May offer lower interest rates and interest rates are fixed

May offer better terms, especially, the repayment plans

Borrowing limits are lower

The interest does not accrue on the federal subsidized loan during in-school, grace, and authorized deferment periods.

Federal student loans do not require a credit check or cosigner

Payments are usually deferred until after you graduate

Click on comparison chart for a more in-depth comparison

Private education loans : These loans are provided by banks, credit unions, lenders, schools, and other agencies. Expect a credit check as part of the application process Most students will require a credit score yet often need a cosigner Interest rates can be fixed or variable and may differ from loan product to loan product Repayment options may differ Click on comparison chart for a more in-depth comparison

Expect a credit check as part of the application process

Most students will require a credit score yet often need a cosigner

Interest rates can be fixed or variable and may differ from loan product to loan product

Repayment options may differ

Click on comparison chart for a more in-depth comparison

California Dream Loans : These loans are provided by UC San Diego and can be applied for by completing the California Dream Act Application (CADAA) . May have a lower interest rate than a private education loan California Dream Loans do not require a credit check or cosigner Are considered subsidized loans. No interest accrues during in-school, grace, and authorized periods of deferment Are deferred until 6 months after your full-time or half-time enrollment ends

May have a lower interest rate than a private education loan

California Dream Loans do not require a credit check or cosigner

Are considered subsidized loans. No interest accrues during in-school, grace, and authorized periods of deferment

Are deferred until 6 months after your full-time or half-time enrollment ends

Other loans are offered by the school.

Is the private education loan a personal loan?

No, it’s not a personal loan. The private education loan involves you, the school, and the lender/bank. A personal loan only involves you and the lender/bank. The loan funds from the private education loan must be sent directly to the school. The funds from a personal loan are given directly to you, the borrower.

Do I need a private education loan?

Before applying for a private education loan, you should always start by completing the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) or the California Dream Act Application (CADAA) to see what financial aid you may be eligible to receive.

Don’t believe the myth that you don’t qualify for financial aid. Private education loans are usually used to help bridge the gap between the cost of attendance (COA) and the other financial aid you receive. Your COA isn't limited to tuition — it includes other expenses associated with being a college student, such as books direct cost components in the budgets.

Direct Costs: Charges included in the cost of attendance that the student/family pays directly to the institution. Actual charges may vary by student. For example, students may have different housing options or may enroll in a part-time program.

Indirect Costs: Estimated expenses in the cost of attendance that are not paid directly to the institution.

For more information on each Cost of Attendance element visit our Financial Aid Terms webpage.

Who can apply for private education loans?

Anyone can apply for a private education loan if they are enrolled in an accredited institution pursuing a degree or certificate. Eligibility requirements vary from lender to lender, and most private lenders offer a variety of options when it comes to private education loans.

There are private education loans for undergraduate students, but also specialized student loans for graduate students enrolled in medical, dental, business, law school, and other programs. There are also options for parents to take out private education loans on behalf of their student. Depending on the loan product you apply for banks consider a variety of factors when determining if you're eligible for a private education loan, including if you're attending an eligible school, if you meet enrollment criteria, your credit score, income, and if you meet the debt-to-income requirements (this is usually something only parents/cosigners need to worry about).

What do I need to apply for a private education loan?

The application process for private education loans may differ from lender to lender, but here is a general checklist of what you need to do:

Research your options: Compile a list of the lenders you've found and compare interest rates, fees, repayment options, eligibility requirements, and any other factors that may be important to you. Autopay (auto-debit) discounts or other types of discounts are all things you can consider when making comparisons.

Gather your information: Most private lenders will ask you for the following information and/or documents: Social Security number Recent paystub or other proof of income Any monthly housing payment you may have Your employer name/phone number/length of employment (if applicable) The name of the school you plan to attend Cost of attendance Any financial aid received (you can find this on the financial aid offer letter from your school) Your anticipated graduation date/loan period/loan amount needed A cosigner is encouraged (but not mandatory) — if you have one, you'll need their name and email address

Social Security number

Recent paystub or other proof of income

Any monthly housing payment you may have

Your employer name/phone number/length of employment (if applicable)

The name of the school you plan to attend

Cost of attendance

Any financial aid received (you can find this on the financial aid offer letter from your school)

Your anticipated graduation date/loan period/loan amount needed

A cosigner is encouraged (but not mandatory) — if you have one, you'll need their name and email address

How much should I borrow?

Most private education loans max out at your college's cost of attendance minus other financial aid. There may be borrowing limits for each lender as well. For example, let's say your college costs $50,000 per year and you have $40,000 available from financial aid and college savings. You only need another $10,000 and can apply for a private education loan to cover that amount.

Under no circumstance can you be awarded more financial aid than your total cost of attendance. In this scenario, the school will certify the maximum amount of $10,000, no matter how much your loan was approved for. Certifying more will cause you to exceed your cost of attendance. You can look at your Financial Aid Offer letter in the Financial Aid and Scholarships portal to see your cost of attendance or you can view all cost of attendance student budgets on our website.

It's important to only borrow what you need — you don't want to pay back more than you absolutely must!

You may have the option to borrow term by term or for the full school year. It's usually recommended to take out the loan for the full school year instead of taking out multiple loans, one for the fall quarter, one for winter quarter, and one for spring quarter. It can save you time, simplify the process, and you'll also have one credit check for the year.

If you have unexpected expenses and the reduction in the loan amount would result in a hardship, you may be eligible for a Special Circumstances - Cost of Attendance (COA) Appeal with appropriate documentation. Submission of a request does not guarantee approval .

What should I look for when selecting a private education loan or lender?

This decision will vary based on whatever loan is the best fit for you and your financial situation. Some factors you should take into consideration are:

Interest rate/APR: What is the lowest interest rate and annual percentage rate (APR) on the loan? Is the interest rate fixed or variable? If it’s variable, how often is it adjusted? How often is the interest capitalized? Is there an interest rate cap? You'll want to look for competitive rates, but keep in mind that factors like repayment type, repayment term, and rate type will impact it, in addition to many others.

The credibility of the lender: Seek out well-known lenders that have a strong track record of being reliable and trustworthy.

Perks: Will there be a discount if you open a checking account at the financial institution or if you use autopay? A lot of banks offer autopay and loyalty discounts if you're an existing customer, so make sure you investigate that!

Customer service: Should you wish to see someone in person, are you able to head over to a branch for personalized customer service?

Fees: Be sure to do your research and read the fine print. Are there any origination, disbursement or other fees associated with the loan?

Repayment options: What are my repayment options? Do I have to begin repayment while in school? When will repayment on my loan begin? Are there penalties for paying on or paying off my loan early? Will I get a repayment schedule that shows how long I repay on the loan? Are there deferment options while I’m in school and/or when I begin repayment?

Grace periods: Do I have a grace period with this loan before I begin repayment? If yes, how long is the grace period?

Enrollment requirements: Are there any enrollment requirements (e.g., HT, FT, etc.)?

Loan amount: What are the minimum and maximum loan amounts available?

Co-signer release: Is there an option to release the co-signer later?

What type of payments can I make: Can interest-only payments be made while in school without penalty?

Billing: Does the lender offer combined billing of alternative and federal loans?

Credit decisions: What is the turnaround time for credit decisions and disbursement of funds?

Problem resolution: How are problems resolved? Does problem resolution occur in person, by phone, or by email?

Web access: Is there access to my loan information through the web?

Selling loans: What is the lender’s policy on selling loans to other lenders after the loan has been disbursed?

What can private education loans be used for?

These loans can only be used for approved educational expenses, such as:

Tuition and Fees

Housing expenses

Books, supplies, and equipment

Transportation to and from school

Miscellaneous personal expenses (e.g., groceries)

Dependent care expenses

What kinds of things can the private education loan not be used for?

Furniture purchases

Nonessentials: high-end clothing, gym memberships

Paying for debt such as credit cards, auto and personal loans

Any purchase that is not considered an educational expense

How does the school process my private loan?

Before your certification request can be processed:

Your financial aid file must be complete (FAFSA and CA Dream Act Applicants only).

You must have received, reviewed and accepted your Financial Aid Offer(s) (FAFSA and CA Dream Act Applicants only). Declining your federal loans will generate an automatic email sent to you to confirm your acceptance of the private education loan over the federal loan(s).

You must be enrolled in the minimum units required by your chosen lender. This applies only to lenders that require borrowers to be enrolled in a minimum number of units at the time of certification.

You must be maintaining satisfactory academic progress or have an approved Satisfactory Academic Progress Appeal approval on file with the Financial Aid Office. This applies only to lenders that require borrowers to be making satisfactory academic progress (SAP) towards completion of their degree.

If you do not have a social security number and you applied for a private alternative loan using a name other than the name associated with your UCSD student record you must contact the Financial Aid and Scholarships Office to self-identify for the certification request to be processed.

What is a school-certified private education loan?

The University of California San Diego is required by law to ensure the sum of private educational loans and other financial aid does not exceed your cost of attendance. If this total exceeds your cost of attendance, your loan may not be certified for the full requested loan amount and may be reduced to prevent your total aid from exceeding your cost of attendance. A private education loan requires the school to verify the amount you are borrowing by subtracting your total financial aid and loan amount from the cost of attendance.

How does the school certify my loan?

The lender will send an electronic certification request to the school. The certification request will include the loan amount you requested and were approved for by the lender for the loan period you requested. The school will verify the amount that can be certified. The school will certify the loan, and the certification request is sent back to the lender electronically. The certification to the lender includes the certification amount and the school’s disbursement dates. This process can take several days to several weeks depending on the time of year. After the certification is received by the school, the process can take 10–14 business days but may take longer during peak periods (August through October). Please note that this timeframe applies only to UC San Diego's processing and does not include any additional time your lender may require before submitting the certification request to the university.

Apply early enough to allow for the Right to Cancel period to end and to ensure your money arrives prior to the quarterly fee deadline.

Why does it take so long to certify my loan?

The private education loan process takes longer than the federal student loan process. There are different rules that must be followed as set forth by each lender. The federal student loan process is handled between the school, the student, and the federal government. The private education loan starts with the lender, goes to the school and goes back to the lender before the money is scheduled to be sent to the school after the lender’s Right to Cancel period has passed. The whole process takes more time than the federal student loan process to complete its cycle. Due to the extra time required to process, certify, and disburse on a private education loan, you should allow plenty of time.

Do private education loan funds go to me or my school?

Your loan will be disbursed directly to the school and applied to your school charges. Remaining funds will be refunded to you and can be used toward approved educational expenses.

When will the loan funds be sent to my school?

Based on when you apply for the loan, the disbursement may not arrive on the day it is requested due to the lender's Right to Cancel period and whether your funds will be sent electronically or by check. For more information, visit our Private Education Loans page .

What is the Right to Cancel Period?

The Right to Cancel period is the delayed disbursement period all lenders must follow. Lenders are required by California state law to give borrowers a minimum 3-day Right to Cancel period before they can disburse money to the school. This period will begin after the lender receives the private education loan certification from the school and all other required documents have been submitted to the lender by the borrower. This period allows borrowers to cancel the loan without penalty within this timeframe. After the loan is certified, please contact your lender directly to find out the exact date your funds will be sent to the school.

Does the Right to Cancel period apply to all private education loan disbursements?

No, it only applies to the first disbursement on each loan. All subsequent disbursements will arrive on the disbursement day set by the school.

How does the lender send my disbursements to the school?

Most students and most lenders can send the money to the school using Electronic Funds Transfer (EFT). This means the funds are sent electronically to the school on the day they are scheduled to disburse. After the school receives the money, it usually takes 1-2 business days for the funds to be released and posted to your UC San Diego student account.

Why are my disbursements being sent by paper check?

The school cannot receive Electronic Funds Transfer (EFT) for international students, students with no Social Security Number (SSN), or funds sent by EFT in the parents’ name for parent private education loans. An SSN is required to send or receive the funds by EFT.

Parent Private Education Loans cannot be sent by EFT. Our system works using the student’s SSN. Parent Private Education Loans are processed under the parent’s SSN, which means these loans cannot be processed by our system electronically. The lenders will send their funds to a third-party disbursing agent, who produces a master check that is sent to the school. There are a couple of lenders who cannot participate in the master check process. These checks will be mailed directly from the lender.

How long does it take to receive my funds by paper check?

The process can take between 2-4 weeks from the time the check is sent by the third-party disbursing agent or the lender for the funds to be received and posted to your UC San Diego student account. During busier times of the year, the process may be further delayed.

There are two check processes:

Checks are received from the third-party disbursing agent.

Checks are received directly from the lender.

If the check comes from the third-party disbursing agent, they will prepare a master check and mail the check with a roster (list of students/borrowers) to the school. If the check comes directly from the lender, the lender prepares the check and mails the check to the school. All checks are sent to the Student Financial Solutions (SFS) Office. Checks are logged into a Checks System for review.

You and the Financial Aid and Scholarships (FAS) Office are notified by email when the check has been entered into the Checks System and is ready for us to review and release the funds. FAS will review the disbursement to ensure it meets all requirements for release. If approved for release, the disbursement is scheduled to disburse to your UC San Diego student account. Our disbursement nights are Mondays, Wednesdays, and Fridays.

Can I cancel the loan? Will there be penalties if I do?

Maybe. Cancellation is generally not a problem for us; however, if you are cancelling the loan after the Right to Cancel period, which is generally after the disbursement date has been set and possibly after the funds have been sent to the school, we suggest you contact your lender first. You need to understand the terms and conditions for cancelling the loan. There may be penalties for cancelling the loan after the Right to Cancel period has passed. You should also contact our office prior to cancelling your loan to understand how cancellation may affect your student bill.

If I cancel the loan, can I change my mind later and reinstate the loan?

Maybe. If you want to reinstate the loan after cancellation, we suggest you contact your lender first. You need to discuss the circumstances for reinstatement with the lender. Timing is key.

Depending on the status of the loan at the time the request for reinstatement is made, the lender may or may not be able to reinstate the loan. If the lender agrees to reinstate the loan, they will contact the school by email or by sending an updated certification request. In some situations, the lender may require you to apply for a new loan.

What can I do if my loan funds will not arrive in time to pay my fees?

There are other payment options available. Look at How to Pay Your Bill . Aside from these payment options, you can enroll in the university’s Triton Registration Installment Plan (TRIP) . TRIP allows you to pay your quarterly charges in three monthly payments, but be aware that TRIP does not cover housing charges.

Why is my loan not certified for the amount that I borrowed?

The school cannot certify the loan for more than your Cost of Attendance (COA) minus other aid you already receive at the time the loan is certified. The school may reduce your loan amount to prevent you from exceeding your cost of attendance.

For example, your cost of attendance is $68,000. Your private education loan was approved for $68,000. Your other aid consists of a subsidized loan for $5,500, an unsubsidized loan for $2,000, a university grant for $6,000, and a scholarship for $1,000. The total aid you were awarded is $14,500. After subtracting $14,500 from $68,000, your remaining eligibility is $53,500. This is the maximum the school can certify the loan.

If you have unexpected expenses and the reduction in the loan amount would result in a hardship, you may be eligible for a Special Circumstances COA Appeal with appropriate documentation. Submission of a request does not guarantee approval .

Why is my disbursement being reduced?

You cannot receive more than your Cost of Attendance (COA) minus other aid at the time the disbursement arrives. The school may reduce the loan disbursement prior to releasing your money. The school cannot release money that causes you to exceed your cost of attendance.

For example, your cost of attendance is $68,000. The spring disbursement of your private education loan arrives for $17,834. Your total aid was $14,500 and is now $21,000. There is an increase in your aid by $6,500. The increase in your aid is now exceeding your cost of attendance. Exceeding your cost of attendance puts you out of compliance with the rules and regulations. To bring you back into compliance, we must reduce the private education loan spring disbursement by $6,500 from $17,834 to $11,334. The $6,500 will be returned to your lender to be applied back to your loan.

If you have unexpected expenses and returning the money would result in a hardship, you may be eligible for a Special Circumstances COA Appeal with appropriate documentation. Submission of a request does not guarantee approval .

Why was my loan not certified by the school?

Your loan may not be certified for one or more of the following reasons:

You do not have eligibility for the loan. This means you are fully funded with other aid up to your Cost of Attendance.

You are not meeting the lender’s requirements: Enrollment requirements (e.g., must be enrolled half-time) Not meeting our Satisfactory Academic Progress (SAP) requirements, if the lender requires it

Enrollment requirements (e.g., must be enrolled half-time)

Not meeting our Satisfactory Academic Progress (SAP) requirements, if the lender requires it

What are my options if my loan cannot be certified by the school?

It depends on the reason the loan cannot be certified.

If your loan cannot be certified for not meeting our Satisfactory Academic Progress (SAP) progress requirements, you should contact our office and ask about completing and submitting a SAP Appeal. Or you can cancel the loan and apply for a loan through a lender that does not have a SAP requirement.

Pro-tip: If your SAP Appeal is approved, you will be awarded other aid and may not need or want the private education loan.

If your loan cannot be certified for not meeting the enrollment requirements, your option is to enroll in more units if possible or cancel the loan and apply for a loan through a new lender that does not have an enrollment requirement.

If your loan cannot be certified for not meeting the lender’s minimum loan amount, your option is to cancel the loan and apply for a loan through a new lender that does not have a minimum loan amount requirement. Not meeting the lender’s minimum loan amount is usually the result of our office needing to lower the loan amount that can be certified.

If cancelling the loan for not meeting the lender’s minimum loan amount would result in a hardship, you may be eligible for a Special Circumstances COA Appeal with appropriate documentation. Increasing your cost of attendance may increase the loan back to the lender’s minimum loan amount. S ubmission of a request does not guarantee approval .

Are private education loans only for undergraduate students?

No. There are loan products available to students of every grade level and program type. Most lenders provide loans to undergraduate students pursuing a degree, graduate students pursuing a degree, Career Training Programs, and Certificate programs. Other lenders may offer loans to specialized groups of students such as Medical, Business, Dental, Residency, and Law. Lenders can even offer Parent Loans that are borrowed on behalf of the student.

What if I am enrolled less than half-time, am I able to apply for a private education loan?

Yes. It is important to read the information on the lender’s website about the loan for which you want to apply. Not all loans require a student to be full-time, but you will need to research the loan product’s description to find out the criteria and/or contact the lender’s customer service center.

What is the Truth in Lending Act’s (TILA) role?

For loans covered under TILA, you have a right of recission, which allows you three days to reconsider your decision and back out of the loan process without losing any money. TILA does not tell banks how much interest they may charge or whether they must grant a consumer loan. TILA falls under the control and watch of the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC) .

Who governs or manages the private education loan?

The financial institution that provides the loan, such as the bank, credit union, or online company, is the owner of the loan. The lender also sets the loan’s terms and conditions. However, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB), a U.S. government agency, regulates private education loans to ensure that lenders treat borrowers fairly.

These requirements include:

Special disclosures

30-day reflection period

Right for borrowers to cancel within three days of receiving funds

Prohibition on co-branding with schools

Can I apply for a loan to cover all four years of my program?

Even if the lender allows you to borrow funding for four years on one loan, the school can only process a loan for one academic year at a time. You cannot apply for a loan that overlaps two or more academic years.

A couple of lenders offer multi-year approval, which may make things easier. With multi-year approval, you'll only need to fill out the application once, and the lender will decide how much money you're qualified to borrow for every year of college. When your next school year rolls around, you won't have to fill out a new loan application. Instead, you'll just request additional funds from your lender, and they'll do a soft pull of your credit, just to make sure that your income and other factors haven't drastically changed. Once that's confirmed, you can request the amount you need from your remaining loan balance.

Can I borrow a loan to help pay a past due balance?

Yes. Find a lender that offers a loan that pays past due balances. Students who wish to borrow a private education loan to cover a past due balance must apply for the loan period that includes the payment period(s), or term(s), for which the balance is owed.

Can private education loans be consolidated with federal loans?

No, but you can refinance private education loans and federal loans together through a private education loan lender.

Pro-Tip: Prior to refinancing your private education loans with your federal student loans, look at the pros and cons. Contact your repayment servicer prior to refinancing. Refinancing can simplify repayment and provide a lower interest rate, but also means losing certain federal benefits like loan forgiveness programs and certain repayment plans.

What are some resources to help me navigate private loans or other financial aid options?

Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB)

Contact Financial Aid & Scholarships

Don’t fall victim to student loan debt relief scams

Financial Aid & Scholarships

Financial Literacy & Money Management

Federal Direct Loan and Private Education Loan Comparison Chart

Financial Tips for Students

Helpful Websites

Learn about your credit report and how to get a copy

Student Financial Solutions

Triton Registration Installment Plan (TRIP)

UC Preferred Lender List

UC CODE OF CONDUCT_Preferred Lender Arrangements

UC CORBETT DISCLOSURE

UC Educational Loan Practices

How do I find a private education loan lender?

Choosing a private education loan program is a personal decision based on your needs. To select a loan product that best fits your needs, you can start by checking out the UC System list of lenders to assist you. It allows you to compare lenders that specialize in your area of study, rates, and conditions. There are various comparison sites available such as finaid.org , Credible , Private Student Loans , Nerd Wallet , and others. Comparison sites enable you to view and compare multiple private loan opportunities in one place. There are many things to keep in mind, read more Student Loan Comparison Sites - Finaid .

Undergraduate Scholarships Applications

General Questions

What’s the difference between Academic Year Continuing Undergraduate Scholarships and Summer Undergraduate Research Scholarships?

Academic Year Continuing Undergraduate Scholarships are awarded on the basis of academic merit plus additional criteria, such as demonstrated financial need, field of interest, and leadership. To apply, you may need to provide answers to one or more supplemental questions. Awards range from $1,000 to $15,000.

Apply to Academic Year Continuing Undergraduate Scholarships using this online application .

Read more about Academic Year Continuing Undergraduate Scholarships (including a detailed listing of scholarships available and application instructions and deadlines).

Summer Undergraduate Research Scholarships recognize and encourage undergraduate research by helping to cover project costs and summer living expenses. All UC San Diego undergraduates in any major who will be enrolled the entire subsequent year are eligible to apply. During the application process you'll be asked to provide the name and contact information of at least one faculty member willing to submit a letter of recommendation on your behalf.

Apply to Summer Undergraduate Research Scholarships using this online application .

Read more about Summer Undergraduate Research Scholarships (including a detailed listing of scholarships available and application instructions and deadlines).

What scholarship amounts are available?

Academic Year Continuing Undergraduate Scholarship awards range from $1,000 to $15,000.

Summer Undergraduate Research Scholarship awards range from $3,500 to $4,000.

Are there citizenship restrictions for all or some scholarship offerings?

Some opportunities are limited to U.S. citizens and permanent residents, others are not. All UC San Diego undergraduates interested in obtaining a scholarship are encouraged to submit applications.

Can I apply for more than one scholarship and/or more than one type of scholarship?

Yes. You are encouraged to apply for all scholarship opportunities for which you are eligible.

Are there scholarship opportunities for me, regardless of my major?

Yes! While some opportunities are reserved for those with specific majors, many other opportunities welcome applicants regardless of major.

What information is required to complete my scholarship application?

Scholarship applicants must complete:

General Application (basic demographic information)

An uploaded PDF of your Academic History after fall grades are posted (General Application)

Supplemental Questions on any recommended opportunities you wish to apply to

In addition to the items above, all Summer Undergraduate Research Scholarship opportunities require:

A research proposal

A letter of recommendation from a faculty member

Do I need to update my scholarship application after Fall Quarter grades are posted?

Yes, you will need to return to your General Application after Fall Quarter grades have been posted in order to upload a copy of your Academic History. Instructions for doing so are provided on the General Application itself.

On the scholarship application, what is the difference between the “Save and Keep Editing” and the “Finish and Continue” buttons?

Both buttons allow you to return and make changes to your general application any time prior to the deadline.

As its name suggests, Save and Keep Editing saves a copy of your application to the server, enabling you to either resume working on your application right away or resume working at a later date.

Press the Finish and Continue button after filling in all of the required questions on your General Application. This verifies that you have completed all questions marked with an asterisk on the General Application. As with the Save and Keep Editing button, you'll be able to make changes to your application, even though your General Application will be marked "complete."

The major difference between the two buttons is that upon completing your General Application and pressing Finish and Continue , you'll be able to see your list of Recommended Opportunities , many of which have additional questions that must be answered before you can be considered for those scholarships.

In the Academic Works scholarship application, how can I remove the “Help” box in the essay boxes?

Just click on Preview or Edit , and the "Help" box will go away.

In the Academic Works application essay boxes, what do all the strange symbols mean?

The symbols are just a way for the system to understand what you are indicating as bold or italic text.

In order to see how these answers may look to a reviewer, click on Preview and the symbols should disappear, making your text bold or italic, according to your preferences.

Summer Undergraduate Research Scholarships Questions

Where do I apply/learn more about summer undergraduate research scholarships?

Apply to Summer Undergraduate Research Scholarships using this online application . Read more about Summer Undergraduate Research Scholarships (including a detailed listing of scholarships available and application instructions and deadlines).

Should I apply for a summer research opportunity even if I don’t meet the eligibility criteria?

No. If you know you don't qualify for an opportunity, don't apply.

Can the same faculty member serve as my reference for all the summer research opportunities that I’m applying for? How?

Yes. After providing your faculty recommender's name and e-mail address when applying to your first Summer Undergraduate Research Scholarship opportunity, a drop-down list containing that faculty member's name will appear on the second and all subsequent summer research opportunities that you apply to.

Just select his or her name from the drop-down menu, and that same letter of recommendation will be applied to any additional research scholarship opportunities that you select.

If you prefer to have different mentors for different proposals you're submitting, just enter the name of another faculty mentor, and they will automatically receive a request for a letter of recommendation.

What if I don’t already have a research mentor?

Don't worry! Contact a research mentor as soon as you can, and discuss your interest in pursuing a research project in his/her lab.If the mentor accepts you, you can then work together on your proposal to do research over the summer in their lab.

If you need help contacting a mentor for the first time, reach out to aep@ucsd.edu . We would be happy to help you find a mentor for your research interests.

Can I re-use the same proposal for multiple summer research opportunities? How?

Yes. After uploading your proposal to your first Summer Undergraduate Research Scholarship opportunity, a drop-down list containing your proposal's filename will appear on the second and all subsequent summer research opportunities that you apply to. Just select the name of your previously uploaded file and you're all set.

How can I view my list of recommended summer research scholarship opportunities?

After completing your General Application and pressing Finish and Continue , select Recommended from the Opportunities tab on the main menu.

Your scholarship list will be presented in alphabetic order and may span multiple pages.

Be sure to follow through by pressing the Apply button for those opportunities you are interested in, and to supply any and all requested information.

If you wish to see only research-specific scholarship opportunities, select All from the Opportunities tab, and search for the word "research."

How do I view which scholarships I’ve applied for and see their current status?

In the upper right-hand corner, click on

What if I don’t see an answer to my question about the summer undergraduate research scholarship application process?

E-mail questions about Undergraduate Research Scholarships to aep@ucsd.edu .

Continuing Undergraduate Scholarship Questions

How do I apply/learn about continuing undergraduate scholarships?

Apply to Academic Year Continuing Undergraduate Scholarships using this online application .

Read more about Continuing Undergraduate Scholarships (including a detailed listing of scholarships available and application instructions and deadlines).

Should I apply for a scholarship opportunity even though I don’t meet all the eligibility criteria?

No. If you know you don't qualify for an opportunity, don't apply.

How can I view my list of recommended continuing scholarship opportunities?

After completing your General Application and pressing Finish and Continue , select Recommended from the Opportunities tab on the main menu.

Your scholarship list will be presented in alphabetic order and may span multiple pages.

Be sure to follow through by pressing the Apply button for those opportunities you are interested in, and to supply any and all requested information.

What if I don’t see an answer to my question about the Continuing Undergraduate Scholarship application process?

E-mail questions about Continuing Undergraduate Scholarships to

What type of aid is available for summer?

Limited summer financial aid is available. Summer awards may include Pell grant, student loans, parent loans, private loans and/or UC San Diego grant funding are available for use in the summer.

How do tuition and fees work during Summer Session?

Unlike the regular academic year, UC San Diego Summer Session fees are charged based on units enrolled and sessions attended.

Fees (and financial aid) can fluctuate based on the number of enrolled units, unit adjustments and when they are adjusted in relation to campus fee refund deadlines.

For more information please visit the Summer Session Tuition and Fees.

How does financial aid work for Summer Session?

Please review the applicable Summer Session overview presentations on our Summer Session page .

How do I know if I have enough financial aid to cover my balance?

Prior to the initial summer financial aid disbursement you can review offered and accepted summer aid by logging into Financial Aid and Scholarships portal and selecting 'Financial Aid', enter your UC San Diego User ID and Password and then select year (for summer 2026 select “2025-26”).

To determine if you have enough accepted summer financial aid to cover the balance due take: The accepted financial aid on the financial aid offer confirmation and compare against the balance for the Summer Session on TritonPay.

The accepted financial aid on the financial aid offer confirmation and compare against the balance for the Summer Session on TritonPay.

If you are attending multiple sessions, your aid will generally be split equally into multiple payments This may not align with your per unit billing in each of the sessions

This may not align with your per unit billing in each of the sessions

Please note that enrollment changes may affect the amount of financial aid received, and enrollment adjustments made after financial aid is disbursed may result in a bill.

What happens once financial aid is disbursed?

Once disbursed, you may review your student account on TritonPay to determine if there is either: A pending summer payment due (if the accepted financial aid does not cover the full balance). No remainder balance due as the accepted financial aid is enough to cover the balance. An account credit If the amount of accepted financial aid exceeds the balance due, a refund will be issued either through Direct Deposit (if enrolled) or as a refund check.

A pending summer payment due (if the accepted financial aid does not cover the full balance).

No remainder balance due as the accepted financial aid is enough to cover the balance.

An account credit If the amount of accepted financial aid exceeds the balance due, a refund will be issued either through Direct Deposit (if enrolled) or as a refund check.

If the amount of accepted financial aid exceeds the balance due, a refund will be issued either through Direct Deposit (if enrolled) or as a refund check.

Reminders Ensure all balances are paid in full by the published fee deadlines of the Summer Session in which you are enrolling, or you may be dropped from your classes. If accepting a student loan, allow at least 3-5 business days once the loan is accepted and all applicable documents are completed to disburse to your student account.

Ensure all balances are paid in full by the published fee deadlines of the Summer Session in which you are enrolling, or you may be dropped from your classes.

If accepting a student loan, allow at least 3-5 business days once the loan is accepted and all applicable documents are completed to disburse to your student account.

When is financial aid scheduled to be disbursed to my student account?

When are Summer Session fees due?

When will I receive my summer financial aid refund?

Why did I only get a partial Pell grant?

Units of all sessions are combined to determine your rate of pursuit

The Federal Pell grant is pro-rated depending on enrolled and requires a total of 12 units for the summer to receive the full summer Pell amount.

Please note that the Pell Grant award is also subject to your remaining annual and lifetime eligibility.

Why wasn't I awarded a UC Summer grant?

Based on limited funding, eligible students are awarded on a first come, first serve basis based on an initial enrollment of a total of 6 units (Waitlisted units do not count as enrolled) and need as determined by the 2025-26 FAFSA / DREAM.

Students are advised to enroll in at least 6 units for Summer Session as soon as possible as funds may be exhausted based on later summer enrollment.

I am attending a Community College/non-UC school for Summer Session; can I receive Summer financial aid?

Was the financial aid enough to cover the balance due on your student account (see TritonPay)?

How many units are you enrolled in? Enrollment of at least 6 units for one or more Summer Sessions will generate an aid offer 12 units for Full Time Pell grant Waitlisted units do not count as enrolled.

Enrollment of at least 6 units for one or more Summer Sessions will generate an aid offer 12 units for Full Time Pell grant

12 units for Full Time Pell grant

Waitlisted units do not count as enrolled.

Are you in multiple Summer Sessions? Summer Session is considered one term for financial aid, generally aid is split equally over the multiple Summer Sessions of attendance.

Summer Session is considered one term for financial aid, generally aid is split equally over the multiple Summer Sessions of attendance.

Was there a recent enrollment change? Enrollment changes can lead to changes in financial aid

Enrollment changes can lead to changes in financial aid

Are there any Student Financial Solutions (SFS) or other holds? If unsure please contact SFS or visit their website for additional instruction.

If unsure please contact SFS or visit their website for additional instruction.

I dropped Summer Session classes and/or dropped one or both of my Summer Sessions, what will happen to my financial aid? Will I be billed?

It depends on if you drop one or both sessions and the timing of when you drop the units as to the effect on your financial aid. Also, remember that financial aid is one piece of your student account, the overall balance may also be affected by the campus Summer Session refund schedule.

Once your financial aid is updated based on enrollment changes you will be sent an email to check the updates to your financial aid offer, and from there you can log into your student account to view the overall balance to determine if you owe a balance. For additional financial aid questions please contact our office.

What is Commencement of Academic Activity (CAA)?

The Department of Education requires that UC San Diego confirm that a student has commenced academic activity in a class for it to count towards eligibility for Title IV federal financial aid.

Similar to fall, winter, and spring quarters, UCSD Summer Session 1, 2, and Special Session require confirmation of CAA to validate your units in each applicable session.

For more information please visit CAA .

FAFSA Simplification

What is FAFSA Simplification?

The Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA®) implemented significant changes for the 2024-25 academic year application. The application itself was simplified, with changes that included a redesign and fewer questions. Other changes included modifications to formulas determining aid eligibility, with the goal of expanding financial assistance for low-income families.

Why were FAFSA Simplification changes implemented?

The FAFSA Simplification Act passed on Dec. 27, 2020 as part of the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2021 . It required a significant overhaul of federal student aid, including the FAFSA form, need analysis, and many policies and procedures for schools that participate in the Title IV programs.

Federal Student Aid implemented the FAFSA Simplification Act alongside the FAFSA portion of the Fostering Undergraduate Talent by Unlocking Resources for Education (FUTURE) Act , which authorized a direct data exchange with the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) to make it easier to complete the FAFSA form.

What issues were reported during the transition to the new FAFSA in 2024-25?

You can see a complete list of issues reported and updates made by the Federal Student Aid office on their website .

Did FAFSA Simplification have any impacts for the UC San Diego campus community?

While financial aid applications are now shorter and simpler for students, a new need-analysis formula now influences student aid. Many programs and partners across campus who have any connection to financial aid, including awards, scholarships, and grants, may have been affected by this change. Additionally, existing information systems needed to be updated and modified to handle new data fields and new types of data.

Does FAFSA Simplification impact the California Dream Act Application (CADAA)?

The California Student Aid Commission made changes to the California Dream Act Application (CADAA) to include some of the terminology updates in the FAFSA Simplification Act, including Student Aid Index (SAI).

What is the new method for calculating aid?

The Estimated Family Contribution (EFC) is now the Student Aid Index (SAI). The EFC and SAI work similarly as each number represents an amount that estimates what families can pay for a student’s education costs, and it considers factors like household income and assets. Additionally, SAI may be a negative number down to -1500.

The number of children in college is no longer included in the SAI calculation. Questions still appear for institutional purposes only.

Do the changes affect Pell Grant eligibility?

Pell grants eligibility is tied to how household income and family size compares to poverty guidelines. Families making less than 175% and single parents making less than 225% of the federal poverty guidelines may be eligible for the maximum Pell. Minimum Pell will be guaranteed to students from households below 275%, 325%, 350%, or 400% of the federal poverty guidelines , depending on household structure. All aid is determined by SAI.

What is a Contributor?

A contributor is considered any individual required to provide a signature and consent on the FAFSA form, including the student, student’s spouse, a biological or adoptive parent, and/or the parent’s spouse (step-parent).

Each contributor will now need to provide their consent to their federal tax information (FTI) being included in the FAFSA.

Who is a Contributing Parent?

The contributing parent is no longer the custodial parent, but the parent with the greater income and/or assets. The new 2024-25 FAFSA will have a Parent wizard to help students identify who should be added as a contributing parent. A parent is defined as your biological or adoptive parent and/or the parent’s spouse (step-parent).

Consent is Required for Every Contributor

Consent is required to retrieve and disclose Federal Tax Information (FTI). Every contributor is required to consent. If consent is declined, the student’s FAFSA will not be considered for federal student aid, including grants and loans. A consent is still required even if the student and/or parent didn’t file a U.S. federal tax return or any return at all.

Who needs an FSA ID to complete the FAFSA?

The FAFSA no longer asks for a Save key. However, all contributors must have a FSA ID to complete the FAFSA application. The FSA ID serves as a digital signature on the FAFSA. Parents who do not have a social security number are also required to create an FSA ID. Details on this process are coming and will be updated on the Federal Student Aid site .

What changes were made to the IRS Data Retrieval Tool (DRT)?

The IRS Data Retrieval Tool (DRT) was replaced with Direct Data Exchange (DDX) as the process for transferring federal tax information (FTI) from the IRS to the FAFSA. This will reduce the number of financial questions that most families are usually asked on the FAFSA. In order to use the DDX, all contributors must consent to having their tax information transferred.

How many schools can be added to the FAFSA now?

Students can now add up to 20 schools through the FAFSA. This is an increase by 10 schools from the 2023-2024 FAFSA. If there are specific state guidelines when you select a school, the online FAFSA will list them for review in that section.

Did anything stay the same on the FAFSA?

Yes. Students must still complete a FAFSA to be considered for any federal and/or state grants. You have to fill out a new FAFSA every year.

If you and/or a parent have already created a FSA ID, you can continue to use the one created. Your username does not expire, but your password expires every 18 months if you haven’t changed it.

Prior-year tax information is still requested. For the new 2026-2027 FAFSA, you will report your 2024 income and assets. Families with significant reductions in income will still be able to submit a Reconsideration Request appeal.

How will I know how much aid I might be eligible to receive?

Where can I get my 1098-T form?

How do I use my work-study?

Work-study is a great way to earn money while you are in school. If you are awarded work-study, you must accept the award to be able to use it. You then will need to find a job via the Career Services website . Upon accepting a position, your work-study funds will be issued to you via a paper check/direct deposit every two weeks. Work-study students are generally allowed up to 20 hours of work per week, depending on the work-study assignment.

If I don’t work, do I have to give work-study money back?

If you don’t work and you don’t earn your work-study money, there are no penalties. This is not something you pay; instead, it’s a way for you to earn money while going to school.

What happens if I withdraw from school before the term is over?

A withdrawal calculation will be performed within 45 calendar days of the last date of attendance to determine how much financial aid you’re eligible to keep and if the campus is required to bill any financial aid. The calculation is based on the last date of attendance.

Funds you aren’t eligible to keep will be sent back to the U.S. Department of Education and, in some cases, this may create a bill for the student. An email is sent once the calculation is processed and at that time you can check your billing statement for any account adjustments. For more information, visit Financial Aid and Withdrawing From UC San Diego .

Financial Aid & Scholarships

Cost of Attendance