Cost of Attendance

Other Self-Supporting Programs

Other Self-Supporting Programs

Use the form below to select a graduate program and the academic year for which you would like to see the estimated cost of attendance for one of the following programs:

Master of Advanced Studies In Architecture-Based Systems Engineering Leadership

Master of Advanced Studies in Climate Science & Policy

Master of Advanced Studies In Clinical Research

Master of Advanced Studies In Data Science & Engineering

Master of Advanced Studies in Leadership of Healthcare Organizations

Master of Advanced Studies in Marine Biodiversity & Conservation

Master of Advanced Studies In Wireless Embedded Systems

Master of Data Science Online

Master of Public Health

Master of Science in Computational Social Science

Master of Science in Drug Development and Product Management

The form will help you understand how much money you'll need to attend your chosen UC San Diego graduate program, and plan ahead for the amount of financial aid you may need to meet that goal. Your actual costs may differ. Your basic cost of attendance may also have add-ons for non-resident costs and orientation fees.

Please be aware that some or all instruction for all or part of the academic year may be delivered remotely. Tuition and fees will remain the same regardless of the method of instruction and will not be refunded in the event instruction occurs remotely for any part of the academic year. Figures for tuition and fees represent currently approved or proposed amounts and may not be final. Actual tuition and fees are subject to change by the University of California as determined to be necessary or appropriate. Final approved tuition and fee levels may differ from the amounts presented.

For more information on each Cost of Attendance element, visit our Financial Aid Terms webpage.

Financial Assistance Information

Students may submit a Special Circumstances – Cost of Attendance Appeal with supporting documentation for expenses such as rent and utilities, transportation, computer purchases, or increased books and supplies. Submission of an appeal does not guarantee approval.

Students may submit a Special Circumstances – Cost of Attendance Appeal with supporting documentation for expenses such as rent and utilities, transportation, computer purchases, or increased books and supplies. Submission of an appeal does not guarantee approval.

Federal Direct Unsubsidized Loans and Federal Direct PLUS Loans require completion of the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) . FAFSAs are available beginning October 1 each year.

Federal Direct Unsubsidized Loans and Federal Direct PLUS Loans require completion of the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) . FAFSAs are available beginning October 1 each year.

Students who are unable to complete the FAFSA or California Dream Act Application, or who are enrolled less than half-time (6 units) , may still be eligible to apply for a Private Education Loan . Private loans are available to both domestic and international students. Students should contact the Financial Aid and Scholarships Office for lenders that accept international applicants or consult ELMSelect and finaid.org for guidance on comparing private loan options.

Students who are unable to complete the FAFSA or California Dream Act Application, or who are enrolled less than half-time (6 units) , may still be eligible to apply for a Private Education Loan . Private loans are available to both domestic and international students. Students should contact the Financial Aid and Scholarships Office for lenders that accept international applicants or consult ELMSelect and finaid.org for guidance on comparing private loan options.

VA Benefits and Self-Supporting Programs

If you are or will be using VA educational benefits to fully or partially fund your degree (i.e. Chapter 33 Post 9/11 Gi Bill® or Chapter 31 Veterans Readiness and Employment (VRE) ), all tuition and registration fees on this page are eligible to be covered by the VA. Please note that the UCGPC Systemwide Fee and the International Student Visa Administration Fee are not eligible to be covered by VA Benefits. The UC Student Health Insurance Plan (UC SHIP) fee may be covered by the Chapter 33 Post 9/11 GI Bill, but cannot be covered by the Chapter 31 VRE program. For more information, visit the UCSD VA Benefits website.

Cost of Attendance

Graduate Students

School of Global Policy and Strategy

Other Self-Supporting Programs