Enrolling in Classes

How to Enroll in Summer Session: Visitors

How to Enroll in Summer Session: Visitors

Find out how to register for Summer Session classes if you're not a current UC San Diego student.

Note to non-UC international students:

1. Make sure you're eligible.

You can enroll in Summer Session if you fit in one of these categories and do not have outstanding fees on any UC San Diego account:

Are a UCSD employee

Are an admitted fall student at UCSD or another UC campus

Have completed high school or are at least 18 years old

Are currently enrolled in a college, including another UC campus, and can return to your home campus for the next fall academic term

Current high school student with a minimum 3.3 GPA (see Summer Session website for eligibility requirements)

2. Understand Summer Session policies and procedures.

Visit the Summer Session website to read important information regarding enrollment, enrollment schedule, fees, deadlines, refunds, and more. You're responsible for knowing this information.

If you're currently enrolled in a college, including another UC campus, contact your home campus for information on transferring units, or visit the ASSIST website.

3. Find classes and get approvals.

Go to the Schedule of Classes to see a list of Summer Session courses and their fees. Make sure you check for prerequisites and restriction codes.

If you plan to enroll in more than 15 credits, you must get approval from the Summer Session director .

4. Apply for Summer Session.

If you've never attended UC San Diego, you'll need to create your user ID and password to enroll via the Summer Session online application .

If you know your User ID and password, you can complete the Summer Session online application .

If you don't know your user ID/ PID and password/ PAC, call 858-534-3150.

If you have your user ID/ PID, but don't remember your password, you can use the Password Change tool .

Note: If you miss an enrollment deadline, you must pay a late fee.

5. Enroll in classes.

Use WebReg to enroll in classes after you successfully submit your application.

Note: If you miss an enrollment deadline, you must pay a late fee.

6. Pay your fees.

Your registration in Summer Session is complete when you pay your fees. For information, see Summer Session Fees and Payment .

If you're a visiting student, contact the Registrar's Office , (858) 534-3150.

If you're a non-UC international student, contact International Programs , (858) 534-6784.