Admissions Policies

University Policies

University Policies

Information Practices Act

The State of California Information Practices Act of 1977 requires the university to provide the following information to individuals who are asked to supply information about themselves.

The information in the application is requested to facilitate the processing of your graduate application for admission to graduate study at UC San Diego. University policy authorizes the maintenance of this information.

Furnishing information that is not designated as optional is required. Information furnished in the application may be used by various university departments, and once admitted, all or portions of the information provided may become a part of the student record. The information provided will be transmitted to the state and federal governments as required by law. Individuals have the right of access to the student record as it pertains to themselves.

The official responsible for maintaining the information contained on these forms is:

Graduate Education and Postdoctoral Affairs (GEPA) Student Services Center 400, MC 0003 University of California, San Diego La Jolla, CA 92093-0003

Nondiscrimination Statement

The University of California, in compliance with Titles VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972, Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, the Age Discrimination Act of 1975, and the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, does not discriminate on the basis of race, color, national origin, religion, sex, disability, or age in any of its policies, procedures, or practices; nor does the university discriminate on the basis of sexual orientation. This nondiscrimination policy covers admission and access to, and treatment and employment in, university programs and activities, including but not limited to, academic admission, financial aid, educational services, and student employment.

Inquiries regarding the university's equal opportunity policies may be directed to the campus compliance coordinator, (858) 534-6861.

Non Discrimination Statement : In accordance with applicable Federal and State law and University policy, the University of California does not discriminate, or grant preferences, on the basis of race, color, national origin, religion, sex, disability, and/or other protected categories. More information about Proposition 209 can be found here . More information about the University of California Anti-Discrimination Policy can be found here.

Admissions Policies

University Policies