Living On Campus

Services & Accommodations

The Laundry Machines in the Residence Halls and Apartments are NOT coin-operated; however, you can pay conveniently with your Triton Cash account on your campus ID card. No more hoarding quarters, yeah!

The Triton Cash account is the prepaid spending account for all undergraduate residents; you add whatever amount you like through the Transact eAccounts Portal and the balance is linked to your campus ID card.

Laundry machines use High Efficiency (HE) Detergent, which is available for purchase at most HDH Markets.

Wash is $1.50 per wash

Dry is $1.25 per dry, extra 15 minutes $0.25

If you have any questions regarding your Triton Cash account, please contact Triton Card Accounts Services (TCAS) at 858.534.4010 or tritoncardaccounts@ucsd.edu .

* Stain Removal Tips

Refunds/Problems with machine

For laundry room malfunctions, please call 858.534.2600 or submit an HDH Fix-It Request . Please have your PID and the machine number handy. Once the work order has been generated, you will receive an email confirmation.

Important! Please contact Triton Card Accounts Services (TCAS) at 858.534.4010 within 7 days of receiving your work order email confirmation to get a refund of any lost funds due to laundry machine malfunctions. You will be asked to provide your PID and the corresponding work order number for the Fix-It request submitted. You can also visit the TCAS office Monday to Friday, 8:00AM to 4:30PM. We are closed for all University holidays.

Washer/Dryer Locations

Podemos: 3, 5, 7, 9, 11, 13, and 15 Floors

Sankofa: 1, 10, 12, 14, 16, 18, and 20 Floors

Eleanor Roosevelt College

Roosevelt Apartments: Kathmandu East Ground Floor

Roosevelt Residence Halls: Student Activity Center Ground Floor

Marshall College

Residence Hall: Buildings P, Q, and V Ground Floor

Marshall Upper Apartments: Building J Ground Floor

Tamarack Apartments

Tuolumne Apartments

Tenaya Hall: 2nd, 3rd, 5th, 7th Floors

Tioga Hall: 2nd, 3rd, 5th, 7th, 9th Floors

North Torrey Pines LLN/Sixth College

Catalyst Laundry: 5th Floor

Kaleidoscope Laundry: 7th Floor

Mosaic Laundry: 3rd Floor

Tapestry Laundry: 7th Floor

Pepper Canyon West LLN

Vela (North Tower): 1st Floor

Rya (South Tower): 1st Floor

Argo Hall: 2nd, 3rd, 4th, 5th, and 6th Floors

Atlantis Hall: Ground Floor

Beagle Hall: Ground Floor

Blake Hall: 2nd and 3rd Floors

Challenger Hall: Ground Floor

Discovery Hall: Ground Floor

Galathea Hall: Ground Floor

Meteor Hall: Ground Floor

CDK Apartments: 2nd, 3rd, 4th, and 5th Floors

Rita Apartments: 4th Floor

West: Building 1 and 3

East: Building 3

The Village at Pepper Canyon

Village Residence Halls: DoggHouse (701)

Pepper Canyon Apartments: Lodge Quad and Bldg 400

Matthews Apartments: Building 712 Room #B

Residence Halls: Bates and Brown Buildings Ground Floors

Residence Halls: Frankfurter and Harlan Buildings 2nd and 3rd Floors

Residence Halls: Stewart Building: 2nd, 3rd, and 4th Floors

Apartments: Black, Brennan, Douglas, and Goldberg Buildings Ground Floors

Front-Load Washer

Load clothes and close the door securely. Door will lock during cycle.

Add detergent, bleach, and fabric softener in the dispenser compartment located on top of the washer. Avoid over-soaping. ONLY A 1/4 CUP OF DETERGENT is required in front-load washers. High Efficiency (H.E.) detergent is recommended.

Insert coins or, if available, swipe Triton Cash card.

To start, press desired fabric setting button. The door will lock one minute after pressing the fabric-setting button. It will remain locked until the cycle is finished.

Water Temperature

Colors, Permanent Press, Delicates & Knits

Bright Colors, Woolens

For best results: wash full loads, avoid over-soaping, and remove clothes promptly at the end of the wash cycle.

Personal Safety Rules:

Only wash items with a machine-washable rating. Never wash items containing flammable fumes.

Never allow children to operate or play in, with, or around the equipment or the laundry room.

Single/Stack Dryer

Clean the link filter and return it to its compartment. A clean lint filter means a more efficient drying cycle.

Place clothes loosely in the dryer. Close the loading door securely.

Insert coins, or if available, swipe Triton Cash card.

To start the dryer, select and press one of the three fabric settings. If you are using a stack dryer, make sure you select the fabric setting for the correct dryer—upper or lower.

The dryer will stop whenever the door is opened during the drying cycle. To restart the dryer, close the door and press the fabric setting again.

Avoid wrinkling: remove delicate and permanent press articles promptly after the drying cycle.

Back To Laundry Info ^

Helping the environment while saving money

Our Maytag washers are formulated to use high efficiency detergents. Most detergent makers produce High Efficiency products (clearly labeled on the box/bottle). These require far less product to wash a normal load of clothes compared to standard detergents, and in most cases will only require you to use a quarter cup vs. a full cup (resulting in consumer savings).

Less chemicals means a benefit to the environment as well, as the cost of cleaning at the waste water plant is decreased. For those living in an area using septic systems with a leaching field, less chemicals are released into the soil.

For more information about conservation and sustainability at UC San Diego, visit our Sustainability website .

Back To Laundry Info ^

Services & Accommodations

Accommodation Needs