Scholar Services

H-1B Arrival Information

H-1B Arriving in the U.S.

The International Services and Engagement Office is currently doing H-1B scholar registration and orientation remotely. New H-1B scholars will receive an email with instructions on how to register and attend an online orientation.

All international scholars in H-1B status are required to register with our office upon arrival to UC San Diego.

You can find more information about the registration process and orientation sessions below, along with other information about settling into your routine as an international scholar at UC San Diego.

Register at ISEO

Change of Status or H-1B Transfer (Portability)

If you obtained your H-1B status through a change of status within the United States , or you are transferring H-1B sponsorship to UC San Diego from another employer , your H-1B approval notice will include your I-94 at the bottom of the notice .

In these situations, you do not need to register with ISEO , as we already have your most current immigration documents.

If your residential address changes , you must report the update to ISEO through iServices .

Entering the U.S. in H-1B Status (Consular Notification)

If your H-1B approval notice does not include an I-94 at the bottom , your H-1B status must be activated by entering the United States using an H-1B visa . This process is called Consular Notification .

If you will activate your H-1B status by applying for an H-1B visa outside the United States and entering the U.S. using that visa, ISEO must review your arrival documents after your entry to activate your status in our records.

Please follow the registration instructions below to submit your arrival documents. Registration instructions

Registration instructions

Complete H-1B Orientation

H-1B scholars are expected to comply with U.S. Department of Labor (DOL) and U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) regulations in order to maintain valid H-1B status. ISEO provides H-1B orientation to help scholars understand these requirements and access resources that support maintaining status while working at UC San Diego.

H-1B orientation is provided through Homebase, ISEO’s self-paced online orientation platform.

Access to the orientation is granted through iServices. When an H-1B petition is sent to USCIS, ISEO will email the scholar with instructions to log in to iServices and complete the eForm titled “H-1B Scholar Orientation.” Scholars must submit this eform in order to be enrolled in the Homebase course. The orientation cannot be accessed directly without completing this step. Scholars will be asked to create homebase login credentials as part of the process to access the orientation materials.

Once the H-1B petition is approved, scholars will receive a follow-up email with helpful information about maintaining H-1B status, employment requirements, important reporting responsibilities, and a reminder to complete the H-1B orientation.

If you have questions after reviewing the materials, please contact ischolars@ucsd.edu .

Complete Your Glacier Record

Applying for a Social Security Card

In order to visit a SSN office you must schedule an appointment online or call 1-800-772-1213.

Completed Social Security Form

Form I-94 record printed from the USCBP website

H-1B: original H-1B Notice of Approval (Form I-797)

For detailed information, visit ISEO's identification documents webpage .

Applying for a Driver's License

The State of California’s Department of Motor Vehicles (DMV) does not recognize international drivers’ licenses. The State of California, however, does recognize your national driver license as long as it is valid and translated to English. Although the law is ambiguous when dealing with international visitors we recommend that, if you plan to drive, you get a California driver’s license immediately to avoid the risk of a traffic citation. Keep in mind that automobile insurance is required by law in the United States. Most insurance companies require a valid California driver’s license.

Scholars in H-1B status must have a social security number in order to apply for a license. Dependents must either show proof of ineligibility by obtaining a denial letter from the Social Security Administration or apply for a number, if eligible prior to applying for a U.S driver's license.

Temporary permits can be renewed until the card is received.

Keep in mind that automobile insurance is required by law in the United States. Most insurance companies require a valid California driver’s license.

For DMV locations or more information call (800) 777-0133 or visit the DMV website.

Applying for a Campus Card

To obtain a UC San Diego ID card, ask your sponsoring department for assistance.

Postdoctoral Scholars- Fellow or Paid-Direct

Visiting Scholars

Visiting Graduate Students

Family members - spouses are eligible only if the principal is a paid UC San Diego employee.

More information is available at: http://blink.ucsd.edu/HR/services/new/cards/

Welcome to UC San Diego, visit our Maintaining Your H-1B Status webpage for information to help you maintain your H-1B status.

H-1B Prearrival Information

H-1B Arrival Information

J-1 Prearrival Information

J-1 Arrival Information

Prospective Scholars

Understanding SEVIS

J-1 and H-1B Comparison