Enrolling in Classes

Special Enrollment

How to Request Enrollment  in Special Studies Classes (Undergraduates)

How to Request Enrollment  in Special Studies Classes (Undergraduates)

Find out how to request enrollment in Special Studies classes 97-99 and 197-199.  help you learn about subjects not taught in regular classes. You can also engage in field, lab, and library research.

1. Learn if you're eligible for Special Studies classes.

If you have completed between 30 and 90 units: You must have a cumulative GPA of at least 3.0.

You must have a cumulative GPA of at least 3.0.

If you have completed more than 90 units: You must have a cumulative GPA of at least 2.5.

You must have a cumulative GPA of at least 2.5.

Read the Academic Senate policy on Special Studies classes.

2. Plan your class.

Meet with the advisor in the department with which you want to do a Special Studies project. Discuss: Which faculty instructor is doing research in your field How you can make an appointment to meet that instructor Meet with your potential instructor to design a project that fits your academic plan. Discuss: The nature of the project How often you will meet Your knowledge of the subject How you will be evaluated

Meet with the advisor in the department with which you want to do a Special Studies project. Discuss: Which faculty instructor is doing research in your field How you can make an appointment to meet that instructor

Which faculty instructor is doing research in your field

How you can make an appointment to meet that instructor

Meet with your potential instructor to design a project that fits your academic plan. Discuss: The nature of the project How often you will meet Your knowledge of the subject How you will be evaluated

The nature of the project

How often you will meet

Your knowledge of the subject

How you will be evaluated

3. Complete the application.

If you have between 30 and 90 units: Submit a request to enroll in Special Studies 97, 98, or 99 through the Enrollment Authorization System (EASy). If you have more than 90 units: Submit a request to enroll in Special Studies 197, 198, or 199 through the Enrollment Authorization System (EASy). Meet with your instructor first and then fill out the appropriate sections of the application. Include your project plan and prerequisite knowledge. Check with the sponsoring department for applicable application deadlines.

If you have between 30 and 90 units: Submit a request to enroll in Special Studies 97, 98, or 99 through the Enrollment Authorization System (EASy).

Submit a request to enroll in Special Studies 97, 98, or 99 through the Enrollment Authorization System (EASy).

If you have more than 90 units: Submit a request to enroll in Special Studies 197, 198, or 199 through the Enrollment Authorization System (EASy).

Submit a request to enroll in Special Studies 197, 198, or 199 through the Enrollment Authorization System (EASy).

Meet with your instructor first and then fill out the appropriate sections of the application.

Include your project plan and prerequisite knowledge.

Check with the sponsoring department for applicable application deadlines.

4. Confirm that you have been enrolled in the class.

You will receive a notification through EASy when you have been enrolled.

Check your schedule on WebReg to confirm your enrollment.

Registrar's Office