Compliance/Health and Safety Information

Compliance/Health and Safety Information

Annual Security and Fire Safety Report

The UC San Diego Annual Security and Fire Safety Report is available online at http://www.police.ucsd.edu/docs/annualclery.pdf .

This report provides crime and fire statistics, as well as institutional policy statements and procedures. Contact the UC San Diego Police Department at (858) 534-4361 to obtain paper copies of this report.

Licensure and Certification Disclosures

NOTICE TO STUDENTS re: PROFESSIONAL LICENSURE AND CERTIFICATION

University of California programs for professions that require licensure or certification are intended to prepare the student for California licensure and certification requirements. Admission into programs for professions that require licensure and certification does not guarantee that students will obtain a license or certificate. Licensure and certification requirements are set by agencies that are not controlled by or affiliated with the University of California and licensure and certification requirements can change at any time.

From the San Diego campus, admission into the following programs that require licensure and certification include:

Joint Doctoral Program in Audiology

Joint Doctoral Program in Clinical Psychology

Master of Arts in –American Sign Language

Master of Education/Teaching Credential

Master of Professional Accountancy

The University of California has not determined whether its programs meet other states’ educational or professional requirements for licensure and certification. Students planning to pursue licensure or certification in other states are responsible for determining whether, if they complete a University of California program, they will meet their state’s requirements for licensure or certification. This disclosure is made pursuant to 34 CFR §668.43(a)(5)(v)(C).

Non Discrimination Statement : In accordance with applicable Federal and State law and University policy, the University of California does not discriminate, or grant preferences, on the basis of race, color, national origin, religion, sex, disability, and/or other protected categories. More information about Proposition 209 can be found here . More information about the University of California Anti-Discrimination Policy can be found here.

Prospective Students

Admitted Students

Compliance/Health and Safety Information