Financial Support

Support for Student Parents

Support for Student Parents

Instructions for departments can be found in the Benefits chapters in the Graduate Student Employment Policy & Procedures manual.

ASE Childcare Reimbursement

Effective April 1, 2026, each ASE with eligible appointment(s) shall receive up to $1,900 per quarter for expenses incurred during the ASE’s appointment period during the academic year and a maximum reimbursement of $1,900 for all of Summer Session. An eligible ASE is a registered student during the academic year terms preceding and succeeding the Summer Session for which the reimbursement is requested, has at least a 25% ASE appointment for the term of the appointment(s), and has (a) qualified dependent(s). For the purposes of this program, qualified dependents shall include children, in the custody of the ASE, who are age 12 or under on July 1st.

Form and receipts should be submitted to the hiring department.

Academic Student Employee (ASE) Childcare Reimbursement Program Factsheet (PDF) Note: This factsheet contains eligibility info, but rates are not current as of 4/1/26.

Coming Soon: New Contract Article for Childcare Reimbursements

Effective Academic Year 2021-22: Extension of Exception for ASE and GSR Reimbursement Program

GSR Childcare Reimbursement

Effective April 1, 2026, each GSR with eligible appointment(s) shall receive up to $1,900 per quarter for expenses incurred during the GSR’s appointment period during the academic year and a maximum reimbursement of $1,900 for all of Summer Session. An eligible GSR is a registered graduate student with GSR appointment(s) or with a combination of other eligible ASE appointment(s) totaling 25% or more of full-time for the entire quarter/semester for which childcare reimbursement is sought, who has qualified dependent(s). For the purposes of this program, qualified dependents shall include children, in the custody of the GSR, who are age 12 or under on July 1st. GSRs should submit a request for reimbursement no later than thirty (30) calendar days following the quarter/semester for which childcare reimbursement is sought.

Form and receipts should be submitted to the hiring department

Academic Student Employee (ASE) Childcare Reimbursement Program Factsheet (PDF) Note: This factsheet contains eligibility info, but rates are not current as of 4/1/26.

Coming Soon: New Contract Article for Childcare Reimbursements

Effective Academic Year 2021-22: Extension of Exception for ASE and GSR Reimbursement Program

DepCare FSA for Academic Student Employees

The DepCare FSA for Academic Student Employees allows you to pay for eligible expenses for care of your child or eligible adult dependent on a pretax basis.  As a result, your salary is reduced before taxes are assessed, and you pay less in taxes. The DepCare FSA for Academic Student Employees is designed to serve the academic student employees (ASEs) and Graduate Student Researchers (GSRs) in eligible title codes, represented by the UAW.

Employees may claim childcare expenses from the System-wide Childcare Reimbursement Program, DepCare, or local campus childcare program but may not access more than one program.

Students should submit completed forms via the Student Support Portal in Services & Support .

UCOP Policy and Form

Child Dependent Health Premium Benefit Program

Academic Student Employees (ASEs) and Graduate Student Researchers (GSRs) employed in qualifying appointments are eligible to receive 100% premium remission for child dependents enrolled in UCSHIP if the employee's income exceeds the designated Medi-Cal eligibility threshold as specified in the collective bargaining agreements

Reimbursement Process for Students

Review eligibility criteria and enroll dependents online: https://shwadmin.ucsd.edu/uc-ship/non-registered/index.html

Download, complete, and sign the Child Dependent Health Insurance Attestation Form (CDHIAF).

Send the complete form and receipt of payment/enrollment to the relevant hiring department contact

Reimbursement will be processed and paid via regular payroll on the employee’s regularly schedule pay period following the approved submission, but no later than sixty (60) calendar days.

Timelines for Submission

Receipts and forms must be submitted to the relevant hiring department contact within 10 days of enrollment in Child Dependent Health Insurance.

Timeline for Reimbursement

Reimbursement will be processed and paid via payroll on the employee’s regularly scheduled pay period following the approved submission, but no later than sixty (60) calendar days.

Contact the Financial Support Unit via the Student Support Portal in Services & Support.

Non Discrimination Statement : In accordance with applicable Federal and State law and University policy, the University of California does not discriminate, or grant preferences, on the basis of race, color, national origin, religion, sex, disability, and/or other protected categories. More information about Proposition 209 can be found here . More information about the University of California Anti-Discrimination Policy can be found here.

Support for Student Parents

Transitional Graduate Student Employment Program