Student Services

Starting a New Program

Additional Resources

Prospective International Students

Prospective International Students

The International Services and Engagement Office (ISEO) welcomes your interest in the University of California, San Diego. W e hope the following admissions information will be helpful to begin your journey. Once admitted, ISEO will provide all international students with orientation information and assistance in order to help them prepare for the beginning of the ir academic program and beyond.

Note: For information about the English language program at UC San Diego, please contact the English Lan g uage Institute at UC San Diego Extension.

Undergraduate Admissions

Learn about undergraduate admissions requirements and how to apply on the UC San Diego Un d ergraduate Admissions page.

Graduate Admissions

Learn about graduate admissions requirements on the UC San Diego Graduate Admis s ions page. Prospective graduate students may obtain specific program information and application forms from the departme n t at which they wish to study.

UC Education Abroad Program (EAP) Reciprocal Exchange

Learn about UC Education Abroad Program – Reciprocal Exchange requirements and how to apply on the UC EAP page .

Summer Session Visiting Students

Learn about UC San Diego Summer Session and how to sign up on the UC San Diego Summer Session page.

It is important to understand the financial realities of living and studying in San Diego in order to avoid difficulties after arrival.

Please review the budget estimates for undergraduate and graduate students , listing all education costs: registration fees, non-resident tuition, room and board, books and supplies, transportation, personal expenses, and health care insurance fee (or health care allowance).

Depending on individual desires, more funds may be needed. Please note that La Jolla is one of the most expensive areas in the United States to live.

The American consulate or embassy will not grant a student visa unless the student can provide substantial proof of adequate funding for studying in the U.S.

The campus at UC San Diego is located in the city of La Jolla, which is a relatively safe city. In an effort to provide new and prospective students a clear picture of campus security and safety, the University publishes the annual Clery Report which includes data regarding crime statistics on and around campus.

For more information on these statistics, crime prevention, and personal safety practices visit the UC San Diego Clery Report o n Campus Security .

RETURN TO iNEWSTUDENTS HOMEPAGE

Additional Resources

New Undergraduate (Bachelor’s) Students

New Graduate (Master’s and PhD) Students

New Exchange (Non-Degree) Students

New Summer Session Visiting Students

Summer Session Visiting Program for Alumni

Sponsored Students

Prospective Students