Middle Class Scholarship

Middle Class Scholarship

The Middle Class Scholarship (MCS) provides eligible undergraduates and students pursuing a teaching credential with a scholarship in support of their studies.

Administered by the California Student Aid Commission (CSAC), to be considered for the Middle Class Scholarship, students need to complete the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) or the California Dream Act Application (CADAA) by March 2 for the upcoming academic year.

Eligibility Requirements

To qualify, students must:

Be a California resident

Be a U.S. citizen, permanent resident, or meet requirements for non-tuition exemption (such as AB 540)

Attend a UC, CSU, or CCC bachelor’s program

Meet income and asset limits

Submit your FAFSA or CADAA on time

Maintain Satisfactory Academic Progress (SAP)

Meet state Financial Aid requirements: maintain Satisfactory Academic Progress; not be in default on a student loan; and must not be incarcerated.

Qualify for a minimum amount of $90 per year based on the MCS awarding formula.

Students selected to receive a Middle Class Scholarship will be notified by CSAC. Students can monitor awards by creating an account at https://mygrantinfo.csac.ca.gov/ .

Total cost of attendance

Available resources , including: Other grants and scholarships A student contribution of $8,412 (updated annually) A parent contribution (if household income is over $100,000)

Other grants and scholarships

A student contribution of $8,412 (updated annually)

A parent contribution (if household income is over $100,000)

MCS award = Cost of attendance minus Available resources

Note: If your other aid already covers your costs, you may not receive MCS.

The Financial Aid and Scholarships Office will confirm current eligibility once all other Federal, State, Institutional and outside scholarships are added to the academic year financial aid offer. This typically begins in the Fall quarter and is updated through the Winter quarter. Once updated, students are sent email notification to review their updated financial aid on the financial aid portal on the Financial Aid and Scholarships (FAS) student portal.

Awards are also subject to change during the course of the academic year based on available funding.

Additionally, final awards are impacted by the number of units a student is enrolled in. Please see MCS Disbursements to see how MCS is prorated according to units enrolled.

Students may receive the MCS award for up to 4 years depending on education level when awarded. The California Student Aid Commission determines students’ lifetime eligibility.

MCS Award Revisions

Awards are subject to adjustments during the award year, even after disbursement.  Any changes to the above MCS components may result in an MCS award amount adjustment.  Any additional financial aid offers received may result in reductions or loss of MCS eligibility, including but not limited to scholarships, state/federal grants, stipends, fee waivers, etc. Additional reasons that may lead to award revisions:

Student’s enrollment changes from Full-time to Part-time (awards are based on Full-Time status)

There is a change in the available resources (i.e., COA, gift aid, parent contribution, if applicable).

The student is enrolled 2 or fewer terms (e.g., Winter and Spring, Spring only, etc)

Student receives a department award or other outside scholarship late in the academic year

These changes may result in billing the student (owe funds back to school) .

MCS Disbursements

MCS is typically awarded and disbursed after census date. Final enrollment for a term is measured at University Census , (the last day of the add/drop period, which typically occurs on the third Friday of the term).

Disbursement Requirement: Students must be enrolled in a minimum of 6 units for an MCS payment, see the unit enrollment and percentage of disbursed amounts below.

Enrollment Status

Number of Units Enrolled

Percentage of Disbursed Amount

Disbursed Amount

12 or more units

Three-Quarter-Time

Less-Than-Half-Time

You receive new scholarships or grants

Your financial aid information is corrected

You change housing or enrollment

You withdraw or repeat a course

Financial Aid and Scholarships Office uploads corrections on WebGrants

CSAC process new corrections and determines new MCS eligibility

Office of Financial Aid receives updated roster from CSAC

Office of Financial Aid awards/adjusts MCS amount on student’s account

FAQs: Commonly asked questions and answers -- Coming soon!

For more information, visit the official CSAC Middle Class Scholarship page: 🔗 csac.ca.gov/middle-class-scholarship

Entering First-Year Students

Entering Transfer Students

Chancellor's Scholarships for Entering First-Year

Regents Scholarships for Entering Freshmen

Continuing Undergraduate Students

Receiving Scholarship Funds from Non-UC San Diego Organizations

Middle Class Scholarship

Outside Agency Scholarships