Student Services

Changing Visa Status

Change to F-1 Status

Changing to F-1 Student Status

If you are currently enrolled or have been admitted to UC San Diego under a different non-immigrant status (i.e., H4, E2, L2) and are considering changing your status to F-1 student, please ensure you are fully aware of requirements and considerations related to a change to F-1 status .

Note: ISEO cannot offer specific filing advice .The following information is provided as a guideline to change to F-1 Student Status. If you are considering changing your status, please make an appointment to see an international student advisor and consider consulting an immigration attorney on the change of status process.

Option 1: Apply for F-1 Visa Outside the U.S.

Depart the U.S. and apply for an F-1 visa at a U.S. Embassy or Consulate located in your home country or any country outside of the U.S.

Request a Change of Status I-20 from ISEO

To apply for an F-1 visa outside of the U.S., you must first obtain an F-1 Form I-20 from UC San Diego. First, be sure to meet with an international student advisor at ISEO.

Submit a Change of Status I-20 Request in iServices :

Find the Students Returning to UC San Diego c ategory in the left menu. Select the Change of Status I-20 Request.

Select the Change of Status I-20 Request.

Prepare a PDF copy of: Your passport biographical page. Your I-94. Bank statement(s) or financial support letter(s) to show funding for the first 12 months of your studies.

Your passport biographical page.

Bank statement(s) or financial support letter(s) to show funding for the first 12 months of your studies.

Submit all of the required eForms. You will receive a confirmation email when your request has been successfully submitted.

ISEO has an average processing time of 10 business days . You will be notified via email when your request is complete.

Travel and Apply for F-1 Visa Outside the U.S.

Once you have received your change of status I-20, schedule a visa appointment with a U.S. embassy or consulate outside of the U.S. Interview with consular officer at U.S. embassy or consulate outside of the U.S. You may be asked to provide proof that you are a bona fide non-immigrant, with strong ties to your home country and no intention of immigrating to the U.S.

If you are currently in the U.S., carefully plan your travels when departing the U.S. for your visa appointment. If a visa is granted, you may not re-enter the U.S. in F-1 Status to enroll as a full-time student at UC San Diego until 30 days prior to the program start date listed on your Form I-20. If you are applying for a visa and are granted an F-1 visa more than 30 days prior to your program start date listed on your Form I-20, make additional plans or accommodations to remain abroad until you are eligible to enter.

Check-In for I-20 Activation

Within 10 days of arrival, inform us that you have successfully entered the U.S. in F-1 Status by taking the following steps:

Generate your Form I-94 from the CBP website

Submit the Check-In Request in iServices in order for ISEO to activate your F-1 status in SEVIS.

Maintenance of Status and Impacts on Residency Status

F-1 Federal Rules and Regulations:

As an F-1 Student, you will be subject to federal rules and regulations. It is important that you maintain your F-1 status by following these rules. To learn about your status, you are required to complete the iTriton Online Training by the end of your first quarter in F-1 status. Follow directions on the iTriton Online Training Page to receive access. If you have visa related inquiries, you can always connect with an advisor .

Tuition and Residency Status:

Upon arrival to the U.S. in F-1 Status, ISEO will report your new status to the Residence Deputy at UC San Diego who determines your residency status for tuition purposes. Students who change status to F-1 may experience a change in residency status and tuition fees. For more information, please visit the Residence Deputy's Website .

Option 2: Apply with USCIS while Remaining Inside the U.S.

Individuals requesting a change of status while remaining in the U.S. must satisfy ALL of the following criteria:

Your current I-94 status will be valid at the time of filing.

You have maintained your current I-94 status for a minimum of 90 days.

You have been admitted into a degree program at UC San Diego and are in good academic standing.

Your primary purpose for changing status in the U.S. must be to become a full-time student at UC San Diego.

NOTE for prior J visa holders only: Generally, J-1 and J-2 Exchange Visitors who are subject to the two-year home country residence requirement and have not been granted a waiver of the requirement are prohibited from changing status within the U.S., except to A and G status. It may be necessary to return home and apply for the new visa type there.

Timeline and Processing Time:

To change your status to F-1 student status while remaining in the U.S., you must submit an application to U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS). For the entire duration of the pending application with USCIS, you MUST remain in the U.S. USCIS processing time can vary (and may take 12 or more months). ISEO recommends that you start this process 12-18 months before your current status expires.

Enrollment While Change of Status is Pending:

If your current non-immigrant status does not allow study (e.g., B-2, F-2), you must wait for your change of status application be approved before starting a full-time program at UC San Diego. Students changing from B-2 or F-2 status to F-1 MUST receive approval before the first day of the admitted quarter. Failure to receive F-1 approval may delay your admission or prevent your enrollment at UC San Diego.

Employment While Change of Status is Pending:

Benefits of the F-1 Visa do not begin until you have been approved for a change of status and have enrolled in classes at UC San Diego. If your current non-immigrant status does not allow you to work lawfully in the U.S., you MUST wait until your change of status application has been approved and you've received the proper F-1 employment authorization to begin employment. To avoid problems with your immigration status, check to ensure you are eligible and have the proper employment authorization, BEFORE starting any type of work.

Pending Adjustment of Status (Greencard Application Pending):

As long as you meet all eligibility requirements for a Change of Status with USCIS, you may be eligible to file for a Change of Status with USCIS despite a pending greencard application. It is important to contact an immigration attorney and understand how your pending greencard application may impact your change of status application.

Completion of UC San Diego Degree Program BEFORE Change of Status Approval:

Due to long USCIS processing times, it is possible that you may complete your program of study at UC San Diego before your change of status application with USCIS is approved. It's important to discuss this timeline with an international student advisor .

Approval for F-1 Non-immigrant Status but NOT an F-1 Visa for Travel/Re-Entry:

Changing your non-immigrant status to F-1 while in the U.S. allows you to remain in the U.S. and avail the benefits of the F-1 non-immigrant status. However, it does NOT grant you an F-1 visa for travel and re-entry into the U.S. If you travel outside of the U.S. after your change of status is approved, you may not re-enter the U.S. in F-1 Status without obtaining a valid F-1 Visa. Before you travel, plan ahead! You will need to apply for an F-1 Visa at a U.S. Embassy or Consulate abroad (Canadian citizens are exempt), prior to re-entering the U.S.

Request a Change of Status I-20 from ISEO

Submit a Change of Status I-20 Request in iServices :

Find the Students Returning to UC San Diego c ategory in the left menu. Select the Change of Status I-20 Request.

Select the Change of Status I-20 Request.

Prepare a PDF copy of: Your passport biographical page. Your I-94. Bank statement(s) or financial support letter(s) to show funding for the first 12 months of your studies.

Your passport biographical page.

Bank statement(s) or financial support letter(s) to show funding for the first 12 months of your studies.

Submit all of the required eForms. You will receive a confirmation email when your request has been successfully submitted.

ISEO has an average processing time of 10 business days . You will be notified via email when your request is complete.

Submit a Change of Status Application to USCIS

Required documents for Change of Status Application:

The following supporting documents will be required when submitting your Form I-539 USCIS Application:

Personal Statement (typed) explaining why you want to change your status. Include information about why you entered the U.S. in your current status, why and how your intentions changed once in the U.S., and any other relevant information. Since F-1 is a nonimmigrant status, it is advisable that you include information relating to your plans to return home after completing your studies, including any ties to your home country.

Copy of your signed change of status I-20

Proof of admission to UC San Diego or, if current UC San Diego student, copy of your unofficial transcript or academic history from TritonLink.

Receipt of payment of SEVIS I-901 fee. After receiving I-20 from ISPO, ensure you pay the I-901 SEVIS Fee . Refer to your Form I-20 to complete the payment and save the PDF receipt.

Copy of I-94 or I-797 approval notice showing current status . For electronic versions of the I-94, go to the CBP website .

Copy of passport bio page (s) that includes picture and expiration date. Ensure your passport is valid for at least 6 months in the future. If you are pending a passport renewal, include your current passport and proof of pending renewal from your home country's embassy or consulate.

Copy of visa page in passport (not applicable if Canadian citizen). A valid visa is NOT required.

Proof of Financial Support USCIS requires that financial documents show sufficient funds to cover expenses listed on the Form I-20 for the first year of study. All documents must be in English. If document is not in USD, also include conversion to U.S. dollars from home currency (available at www.xe.com ). Students may combine multiple sources of financial support to demonstrate financial capability. See the budget estimates for both undergraduate and graduate students (as well as dependents) on our Funding Requirements page . Financial documents must be current and no older than 90 days. If bank statements are not in student’s name, provide a letter from the sponsor specifying that he/she will be providing all financial support to the student.

USCIS requires that financial documents show sufficient funds to cover expenses listed on the Form I-20 for the first year of study.

All documents must be in English. If document is not in USD, also include conversion to U.S. dollars from home currency (available at www.xe.com ).

Students may combine multiple sources of financial support to demonstrate financial capability. See the budget estimates for both undergraduate and graduate students (as well as dependents) on our Funding Requirements page .

Financial documents must be current and no older than 90 days.

If bank statements are not in student’s name, provide a letter from the sponsor specifying that he/she will be providing all financial support to the student.

Copy of primary visa holder’s immigration documents. If you are a dependent visa holder (your spouse or parent is the primary visa holder), include their immigration documents: Valid passport bio page and visa page Form I-94 or or I-797 approval notice Proof of Maintenance of Status: Employment letter, letter from business accountant, etc.

Valid passport bio page and visa page

Form I-94 or or I-797 approval notice

Proof of Maintenance of Status: Employment letter, letter from business accountant, etc.

Ties to Your Home Country (OPTIONAL, AT YOUR DISCRETION). Under federal law, all applicants for nonimmigrant visas or statuses, such as student visas, are viewed as having intentions to immigrate to the U.S. until they can demonstrate otherwise. It is important to show that you have strong ties to your home country, or reasons for returning to your home country or foreign country of residence after completing your program of study. Proof of ties will vary per applicant. Examples of ties include: Offer of employment or current job abroad Financial prospects that you own or will inherit, such as a family business, investments, etc. Property or Land in your name Direct family members (such as spouse, children, or parents) which you support For further details about this topic, you can visit the State Department’s Foreign Affairs Manual [9 FAM 402.5-5(E)], which explains the basics of what consular officers or USCIS Adjudicators may consider

Offer of employment or current job abroad

Financial prospects that you own or will inherit, such as a family business, investments, etc.

Property or Land in your name

Direct family members (such as spouse, children, or parents) which you support

For further details about this topic, you can visit the State Department’s Foreign Affairs Manual [9 FAM 402.5-5(E)], which explains the basics of what consular officers or USCIS Adjudicators may consider

Submit your Application:

You may be eligible to file ONLINE if:

You are the only applicant, without co-applicants (dependents); and

You will not require legal or accredited representation at any point in your request (someone filing on your behalf).

If you are not eligible to file online, you must use Form I-539 Paper Form and mail a complete application , with appropriate fees , and required documents to USCIS.

Once you've prepared your required documents and have determined your eligibility to use the online I-539 application, begin your online Form I-539 USCIS Application:

Create a USCIS Account: Visit the USCIS website for the Form I-539 and select the 'File Online' button. Make sure you remember your username and password.

Complete Form I-539 form: Start the online application. Review USCIS Website and I-539 Instructions for form filing tips.

Upload all Required Documents: Include all required documents, including your Change of Status Form I-20.

Pay Required Fees: You will be required to pay USCIS Processing Fees in order to submit your application.

I-797 Receipt Notice: Upon successful submission of your application, you will receive a PDF Receipt, known as the Form I-797 Notice of Action. This notice will have a Receipt Number which you can use to track the status of your application.

I-797 Receipt Notice & Checking Status of Request

Upon successful submission of your application, you will receive a PDF Receipt, known as the Form I-797 Notice of Action. This notice will contain a Receipt Number which you can use to track the status of your application on the USCIS Case Status Page. You may receive additional correspondence from USCIS. Log into your USCIS Account, check your email, and the USCIS Case Status Page, for any additional action USCIS may require you take.

Additional Resources for Filing:

U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS): How do I change to another nonimmigrant status?

Department of Homeland Security (DHS): Study in the States - Change of Status .

Expedite Criteria : Expedite requests are reviewed by USCIS on a case-by-case basis and the applicant must meet strict expedite criteria. Review the USCIS policy manua l for more information on expedite criteria.

While Waiting for a USCIS Decision

If you are changing status through a USCIS I-539 application, note that travel outside of the U.S. while your application is pending is considered abandonment of your application and may lead to a denial. Before traveling, talk to an ISEO Advisor and consult your immigration attorney.

Employment Authorization is tied to an individual's valid and active status. Students should not engage in employment benefits associated with the F-1 visa category until they have been approved by USCIS and have reviewed iWork.ucsd.edu to request the proper type of work authorization document.

If your current non-immigrant status does not allow study (e.g., B-2, F-2), you must wait for your change of status application be approved before starting a full-time program at UC San Diego. Students changing from B-2 or F-2 status to F-1 MUST receive approval before the first day of the admitted quarter. Failure to receive F-1 approval may delay your admission or prevent your enrollment at UC San Diego.

Students whose status permits enrollment may continue to be enrolled after timely filing an application for F-1 status.

Biometric Services Appointment (if Required)

USCIS may require that you appear for an interview or provide biometrics (fingerprints, photograph, and/or signature) at any time to verify your identity, obtain additional information, and conduct background and security checks, including a check of criminal history records maintained by the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), before making a decision on your application or petition. After USCIS receives your application and ensures it is complete, USCIS will inform you in writing (via regular mail) if you need to attend a biometric services appointment.

If an appointment is necessary, the notice will provide you the location of your local or designated USCIS Application Support Center (ASC) and the date and time of your appointment. If you are required to provide biometrics, at your appointment you must sign an oath reaffirming that:

You provided or authorized all information in the application;

You reviewed and understood all of the information contained in, and submitted with, your application; and

All of this information was complete, true, and correct at the time of filing. If you fail to attend your biometric services appointment, USCIS may deny your application.

We recommend that you review your copy of your completed application before you go to your biometric services appointment at a USCIS ASC . At your appointment, USCIS will permit you to complete the application process only if you are able to confirm, under penalty of perjury, that all of the information in your application is complete, true, and correct. If you are not able to make that attestation in good faith at that time, USCIS will require you to return for another appointment.

Request for Evidence (RFE)

While your application is pending, USCIS may issue you a Request for Evidence (RFE). It means that the USCIS officer reviewing your application needs more information before they can make a decision. They will indicate within the RFE document what additional document is needed, a deadline to submit the requested information, and how to submit it to USCIS. If you receive a request for evidence, immediately  connect with an ISEO Advisor .

Receive USCIS Decision

Change of Status Approval

When your change of status is approved, you will be issued an I-797 Approval Notice with an attached Form I-94. You are required to report your approval within 10 days of receiving the notice. To report your approval, s ubmit the Check-In Request in iServices in order for ISEO to activate your F-1 status in SEVIS and to receive an updated Form I-20.

Once approved, move on for additional information regarding maintaining your new F-1 Status, residency status for tuition, and travel.

Change of Status Denial

If you receive a denial notification, immediately connect with an ISEO Advisor to understand your options moving forward.

Maintenance of Status and Impacts on Residency Status

F-1 Federal Rules and Regulations:

As an F-1 Student, you will be subject to federal rules and regulations. It is important that you maintain your F-1 status by following these rules. To learn about your status, you are required to complete the iTriton Online Training by the end of your first quarter in F-1 status. Follow directions on the iTriton Online Training Page to receive access. If you have visa related inquiries, you can always connect with an ISEO Advisor .

Tuition & Residency Status

Upon arrival to the U.S. in F-1 Status, ISEO will report your new status to the Residence Deputy at UC San Diego who determines your residency status for tuition purposes. Students who change status to F-1 may experience a change in residency status and tuition fees. For more information, please visit the Residence Deputy's Website .

Traveling Outside the U.S. after Change of Status Approval:

Changing your non-immigrant status to F-1 while in the U.S. allows you to remain in the U.S. and avail the benefits of the F-1 non-immigrant status. However, it does NOT grant you an F-1 visa for reentry into the U.S. If you travel outside of the U.S. after your change of status is approved, you may not re-enter the U.S. in F-1 Status without a valid F-1 Visa. Before you travel, plan ahead! You will need to apply for an F-1 Visa at a U.S. Embassy or Consulate abroad (Canadian citizens are exempt), prior to re-entering the U.S.

Consult with an International Student Advisor to discuss your travel plans prior to leaving the U.S.

Visit our Visa Application page for more information.

Changing Visa Status

Change to F-1 Status

Change to J-1 Status

Change to Other Status or Permanent Residency