Enrolling at UC San Diego

Enrolling at UC San Diego

Registrar Enrollment Calendar

All academic deadlines are set by the Office of the Registrar and are subject to change. Please see the Registrar's Enrollment and Registration Calendar for the actual dates.

General Deadlines Guidance

The following deadlines are specific to graduate students and are consistent through all three quarters:

The 2nd Friday of each quarter is the deadline to submit:

Half-time Study requests

Leave of Absence requests

In Absentia requests

The 3rd Friday of each quarter is the deadline to submit Applications to Candidacy for the Master’s degree (in order to receive the Master’s in the same quarter).

The 4th Friday of each quarter is the deadline to submit requests to change number of units, and to drop a course without a W.

The 6th Friday of each quarter is the deadline to submit a request to change the grading option for a course.

The 9th Friday of each quarter is the deadline to submit drop requests.

The 10th Friday of each quarter is the deadline to submit add requests.

The 11th Friday of each quarter (finals week) is the deadline to submit:

Final Paperwork for degree completion

Fully completed forms must be received in the Division of Graduate Education and Postdoctoral Affairs by the deadline date; department approval alone does not constitute meeting a deadline.

The Summer degree deadline is the last Friday of summer session II (usually in early September).

Please note : Fully completed forms must be received by the Division of Graduate Education and Postdoctoral Affairs by the stated deadline date. Departments may set earlier submission deadlines for internal processing; please check with your home department for details.

Enrollment Tools for Students

Adding and dropping classes in the current quarter

Half-Time Enrollment

Half-Time Enrollment deadline is the second Friday of each quarter

Enrollment Authorization System

Also known as EASy

Leave of Absence or Withdrawal

Procedures for applying for a Leave of Absence or Withdrawal

Retroactive Enrollment

Requests that occur after the Registrar's established deadline

Repetition of Courses

Policy for repeating a failed course

Non Discrimination Statement : In accordance with applicable Federal and State law and University policy, the University of California does not discriminate, or grant preferences, on the basis of race, color, national origin, religion, sex, disability, and/or other protected categories. More information about Proposition 209 can be found here . More information about the University of California Anti-Discrimination Policy can be found here.

Progress to Degree

Enrolling at UC San Diego In Absentia Registration Leave of Absence/Withdrawal Readmission Retroactive Enrollment Visiting & Exchange Students

In Absentia Registration

Leave of Absence/Withdrawal

Retroactive Enrollment

Visiting & Exchange Students

Preparing to Graduate

Policies & Procedures

Student Academic FAQ

Merkin Graduate Fellows Program

Degree Proposals