Enrolling in Classes

Special Enrollment

How to Enroll in Individual Classes at UCSD (Community College and CSU Students)

How to Enroll in Individual Classes at UCSD (Community College and CSU Students)

If you're a California Community College (CCC) or California State University (CSU) undergraduate student, find out how you can enroll in individual UCSD courses through the Cross Enrollment Program.

If you're not a CCC or CSU student, find out about other ways to take individual courses .

1. Make sure you're eligible.

To be eligible, you must:

Have completed at least one term at your home campus as an admitted student

Be enrolled for at least 6 units at your home campus for the current term

Have a grade point average of 2.0 (grade of C) or higher for work completed

Have paid tuition and fees at your home campus for the current term

Have completed appropriate academic preparation as determined by UCSD

Meet California residency requirements as determined by your home campus

Not have been previously disqualified academically from UCSD

Note: The Cross Enrollment Program is open to undergraduates only.

2. Choose a class.

Go to UCSD's Schedule of Classes.

Under "Select Search Term," select the term during which you plan to attend (see note).

Select Find courses: by subject, select one or more subjects, and press search.

Choose the course you want to take.

If it's fall semester on your home campus, you'll attend Fall Quarter at UCSD. If it's spring semester on your home campus, you'll attend Winter or Spring Quarter at UCSD.

3. Arrange for academic advising.

Academic advising is available at your home campus only.

Check with your academic advisor to make sure the UCSD course you plan to take will transfer back to your home campus and count toward your degree.

4. Obtain approval and verification from your home campus.

Complete the student portion of the Application for Cross Enrollment (PDF) .

Submit the form to the registrar or other cross enrollment officer at your home campus.

After your application is approved, make sure the form has an official signature and is stamped with the school seal. (You will take the approved application with you to UCSD.)

If the UCSD course has prerequisites, obtain a copy of your relevant transcripts to show you can meet the requirements.

5. Get UCSD approval for the course.

Take your completed application to the UCSD class when it first meets.

Get the instructor's signature on your application.

Contact the UCSD department that sponsors the course to get your application stamped.

UCSD approval is valid only for the quarter specified and subject to space availability, deadlines, registration procedures, or other UCSD requirements.

6. Submit the completed form to the UC San Diego Registrar's Office.

The Registrar's Office is at Student Services Center, 2nd floor (see our hours and location info ).

Mailing address: UC San Diego Office of the Registrar 9500 Gilman Drive #0022 La Jolla, CA 92093-0022

7. Pay all applicable fees.

After the Registrar's Office approves your enrollment, view and pay your bill online.

In addition to the nonrefundable per-unit fee, you may also be charged for: Computer fees Lab fees Material costs Transcript fees

You'll need your PID (personal ID number) and PAC (personal access code) to use UCSD's online tools. You receive your PID when you are accepted into the Cross Enrollment Program. Find out how to get your PAC .

8. Check into financial aid.

Financial aid is available only through your home campus. Check with your financial aid office.

9. Review UC San Diego administrative procedures.

Read UC San Diego's expectations for student conduct and academic integrity .

Link to resources that describe course-related procedures , including enrolling in classes, making changes, and withdrawing.

10. Learn about UCSD services and resources you can use.

Link to information about parking on campus .

Present your cross-enrollment form with home campus verification for the current quarter to get a library card and use the UC San Diego libraries .

You are not eligible for a UCSD ID card.

You can use Student Health Services , but for emergencies only.

See Student Life for more information about UC San Diego's student organizations and activities.

11. Take these steps after you complete the class.

Use the Academic History tool to check your grade.

Find out how to request a transcript .