Computer & Email Accounts

Can't Sign on to My TritonLink?

Can't Sign on to My TritonLink?

Instructions on how to obtain your PID (student identification) or reset your password.

If you are a new student

If you are a current student

Use the Password Change tool .

Reminder: Student employee usernames are not the same as student usernames. If your employee username needs a password change, follow the separate staff instructions for changing your AD password .

If you are an alumni

If you are a former student who has not been awarded a degree, including past visitors

Fill out, sign, and return the PID/PAC Request Form (PDF) to the Registrar's Office: Fax: (858) 534-5723 Or scan and e-mail : Registrar-StudentServices

Fax: (858) 534-5723

Or scan and e-mail : Registrar-StudentServices

Once the information is verified, you'll receive your PID within 2 business days.

Note: Your response may be delayed on university holidays or when the campus is closed during winter break (see the academic calendar ).

If you are a Summer Session-only student

If you have not yet created an account:

Read and follow the Summer Session enrollment information for visitors (Step 4).

If you set up an account and were assigned a PID, but lost it or don't have it:

Fill out, sign, and return the Visitor PID/PAC Request Form (PDF) to the Registrar's Office: Fax: (858) 534-5723 Or scan and e-mail : Registrar-StudentServices

Fax: (858) 534-5723

Or scan and e-mail : Registrar-StudentServices

Once the information is verified, you'll receive your PID within 2 business days.

Note: Your response may be delayed on university holidays or when the campus is closed during winter break (see the academic calendar ).

If you have your user ID/PID, but don't remember your password:

Use the Password Change tool .

If you are a medical school applicant

If you can't change your password using the Password Change tool , email:

School of Medicine Admissions

If you are a UC San Diego Extended Studies student

Still need help?

Registrar's Office , (858) 534-3150

ITS Service Desk , (858) 246-4357