Financial Aid for UCEAP Students

Study Abroad & Exchange Programs

Financial Aid for UCEAP Students

The Education Abroad Program is a UC program. Because you are a UC student, you receive UC aid and pay UC tuition & fees. The University-wide UCEAP office determines your cost of attendance while abroad, which will differ from the UC San Diego cost of attendance. UC San Diego’s Financial Aid & Scholarships Office will then adjust your financial need and awards based on the cost of your program abroad.

UCEAP Frequently Asked Questions (PDF)

Financial Aid for Summer UCEAP Slides - Winter 2026 (PDF)

Availability of Aid

Your financial aid eligibility will cover the total costs of your program. Your program budget consists of tuition, fees, room and board, insurance, roundtrip airfare, incidentals, visa fees, and transportation. Personal entertainment expenses and leisure travel are not included.

EAP students are awarded based on their program budget. If your EAP budget is greater than the UC San Diego budget, you may be eligible for additional loan or grant eligibility. If your EAP budget is less than the UC San Diego budget, your financial aid will be reduced.

Academic Year (Fall, Spring & Year Programs)

Various types of financial aid are available for eligible students during the academic year, including federal, state, and institutional grants, scholarships, Cal Vet Tuition Waiver, federal and private loans. The Post 9/11 GI Bill and other federal VA Education Benefits (besides Cal Vet Tuition Waiver) cannot be used for EAP programs. Work-Study cannot be used abroad and will be converted into additional loan eligibility. Cal Vet Tuition Waver Recipients: You must submit a copy of the confirmation of benefits award letter to the UCEAP Student Finance Team .

Financial aid for summer programs is limited to residual Pell Grant, unused Federal Direct Subsidized and Unsubsidized Loans from the academic year, or additional Direct Parent PLUS / Private Loans. Students with financial need who filed the FAFSA or CADAA on time and are enrolled in at least 6 units for summer may be eligible for a UC San Diego Summer Grant (subject to annual review of available funding). In addition, students with a low Student Aid Index (SAI) may be eligible for an EAP Grant (subject to annual review of available funding).

Be sure to apply and/or accept your loans as early as possible to avoid delays and ensure maximum financial aid eligibility.

For more information about Summer Financial Aid and important deadlines, please visit our Summer Financial Aid Page .

Scholarship Information

UCEAP students are eligible for a variety of scholarships for their program abroad. These include:

UC San Diego Study Abroad Scholarships

UCEAP Scholarships

National Scholarships ( Gilman , Freeman-ASIA , etc.)

If awarded a scholarship, the UC San Diego Financial Aid & Scholarships Office will adjust your aid accordingly and notify the UCEAP Office of your award.

For more information on what scholarships are available, please visit the UC San Diego Study Abroad Scholarships Website .

Receiving Financial Aid

UCEAP students apply for Financial Aid in the same way as any other undergraduate student. Please ensure that you:

Submit your FAFSA or CA Dream Act Application (CADAA) by March 3.

Submit all documents requested by the Financial Aid & Scholarships Office in a timely manner.

The UCEAP office will provide our office with a list of EAP participants. Once the budget for your EAP program has been determined, your offer will be adjusted to your program cost, and you will receive a notification of your revised aid offer approximately 2 weeks before the start of your program. Your offer can be viewed via the Financial Aid and Scholarships (FAS) student portal .

Our office will notify the UCEAP Office of the Financial Aid offered to you. Those awards committed by our office will be applied to your MyEAP Account .

Payments & Disbursements

Financial Aid students are deferred from their first payment deadline until our office notifies UCEAP of their financial aid award. UCEAP will apply financial aid towards your mandatory program fees.

If your financial aid is less than the EAP program fees, you are responsible for the difference by the second/final payment deadline.

If your financial aid exceeds the EAP program fees, you will receive a refund within 10 days before the start of your program.

To view your balance, please visit your MyEAP Account .

For information regarding refunds/disbursements, please refer to the UCEAP website and review your MyEAP Account .

If you have any questions regarding your refund/disbursement, please contact your program Finance Accountant .

Refund Information

UCEAP provides students with refunds via direct deposit or mail.

Direct Deposit: Log into your MyEAP Account and select "E-Refund Sign Up"

Postal Mail: UCEAP will mail checks to the U.S. address listed on your “MyEAP Account.” Once these have been mailed, it can take approximately 10 business days to receive the paper check. If you change your address on your MyEAP portal, you must email your EAP Finance Accountant . *NOTE: Email your UCEAP Finance Accountant if you change your address in MyEAP after the program pre-departure withdrawal date.

*All financial aid will apply to your MyEAP account and pay towards your program fees. If your aid exceeds you bill, you will be entitled to a refund.

Supplemental Information for Non-Residents

Non-California Resident Supplementary Tuition varies depending on the time of year you choose to study abroad.

Academic Year Programs:

Non-Resident Tuition will be similar as attending an academic year at UC San Diego.

Fall Semester Programs:

Non-Resident Tuition in a Fall Semester UCEAP program will be MORE expensive than attending a fall quarter at UC San Diego.

Spring Semester Programs:

Non-Resident Tuition in a Spring Semester UCEAP program (Winter & Spring) will be LESS expensive than attending UC San Diego Winter & Spring quarters.

Quarter Programs:

Non-Resident Tuition for a Quarter UCEAP program will be similar as attending a quarter at UC San Diego.

Summer Programs:

There is no Non-Resident Supplemental Tuition for summer UCEAP programs.

UC Annual Non-California Resident Supplementary Tuition: = $30,000

Academic Year Program = ~ $30,000

Fall Semester Programs = $15,000 (1/2) vs. $10,000 (1/3) UC San Diego Fall Quarter

Spring Semester Programs = $15,000 (1/2) vs. $20,000 (2/3) UC San Diego Spring + Winter Quarter

Quarter Programs = ~ $10,000 (1/3)

Pre-Departure Withdrawal

Withdrawal after the Program’s UCEAP pre-departure withdrawal deadline is subject to a $500 withdrawal fee assessed by UCEAP in addition to fees for unrecoverable costs. Any financial aid that had been awarded will be retracted via your UCEAP account. If you plan on attending UC San Diego, your financial aid will be reinstated for the term you are returning.

Post-Departure Withdrawal

If you withdraw from your program after the program start date, you will be considered a post-departure withdrawal. Your aid offer will be re-assessed based on your withdrawal date and the withdrawal calculation. Once the revision is complete, you will receive an updated billing statement from UCEAP.

Students on financial aid may be required to refund money already advanced.

*NOTE: You will be assessed the UCEAP Withdrawal fee in the amount of $500 if you withdraw voluntarily, are administratively withdrawn, or are dismissed after the predeparture withdrawal deadline for your program. The predeparture withdrawal deadline is noted in the Predeparture section of your UCEAP Portal. Please consult with your country's Finance Accountant for questions and fees related to withdrawals.

Changes in Your Financial Aid Offer

Aid offers for UCEAP students are based off financial aid eligibility and are subject to change. Any change with your aid offer will affect your UCEAP account balance. You are responsible for paying off any programs fees and retracted financial aid disbursements.

Common reasons for changes in financial aid include (but are not limited to) EAP budget increase/decrease, scholarships, accepted loans, and withdrawals.

Requesting a Proof of Funds Letter (Visa Letter)

If you need a proof of funds letter to apply for a visa for your UCEAP program, please contact our Financial Aid Study Abroad team by submitting a question via the following link: UC San Diego Services & Support Portal

On the ticket form, select Ask a Question or Make a Request > Financial Aid + Scholarships (FAS) > Study Abroad Offers > UC Education Abroad Program (UCEAP)

Include the following information in the description:

Your Name and PID #

The Name and Term of your UCEAP program

Any Specific Instructions

Your Sample Financial Aid Letter (if available) which can be found in your MyEAP account under "Predeparture Requirements"

Please make sure to plan ahead to receive your letter in a timely manner.

Ask your UC San Diego Study Abroad Advisor about:

Program Information and recommendations

Contact: UC San Diego Study Abroad Office

Ask Financial Aid about:

Study Abroad Financial Aid questions

Your financial aid offer

Changes to your financial aid offer

Confirmation and acceptance of offers

Contact Us: For study abroad financial aid questions, please submit your question through the following link:

UC San Diego Students: UC San Diego Services & Support Portal

Non-UC San Diego Contacts: Financial Aid Case Support for Non-UC San Diego contacts

On the ticket form, select Ask a Question or Make a Request > Financial Aid + Scholarships (FAS) > Study Abroad Offers.

Ask your UCEAP Finance Accountant about:

EAP Disbursements

EAP Program Fees

Account Statement

Contact: studentfinance@eap.ucop.edu

Study Abroad & Exchange Programs

Financial Aid for Global Seminars Students

Financial Aid for UCEAP Students

Financial Aid for Global Exchange Students

Financial Aid for OAP Students