Student Services

Travel and Visa Application

Visa Delays and Denials

Visa Delays and Denials

Students are encouraged to review ISEO's Immigration Policy Updates Page and Visa Application Page for procedures and considerations when applying for or renewing your F-1 or J-1 visa. This page is meant to provide students with information and resources in the event of a visa delay, denial, or revocation.

New/Returning Students: Seeking Entry to the U.S. After Your Program Start Date

International students are expected to arrive to the U.S. no later than the Program Start Date listed on their Form I-20 (F-1) or DS-2019 (J-1) , and will not be allowed entry more than 30 days prior. Entry to the U.S. is up to the discretion of the Customs and Border Protection (CBP) Officers at the Port of Entry and is not guaranteed. Seeking entry to the U.S. after the program start date poses serious immigration and academic risks. Therefore, students who attempt to enter after their program start date should carefully consider the following tips on mitigating risks associated with late entry:

Missed Instruction and Coursework: Arriving late may cause you to miss critical orientations and/or course instruction. This can significantly impact your academic success for the quarter. If you will not be able to enter before the start of classes,  connect with your undergraduate college or Academic Department to understand how late entry may impact you.

Missed Instruction and Coursework: Arriving late may cause you to miss critical orientations and/or course instruction. This can significantly impact your academic success for the quarter. If you will not be able to enter before the start of classes,  connect with your undergraduate college or Academic Department to understand how late entry may impact you.

Carry ISEO's Travel Support Letter: Students who are able to arrive BEFORE the add deadline for the current quarter are advised to print and carry ISEO's Travel Support Letter . Note, this document may not be accepted by CBP.

Carry ISEO's Travel Support Letter: Students who are able to arrive BEFORE the add deadline for the current quarter are advised to print and carry ISEO's Travel Support Letter . Note, this document may not be accepted by CBP.

Carry Documentation Explaining Late Entry: If you are arriving late due to circumstances beyond your control (e.g. late issuance of student visa or rescheduled flights). Ensure you are able to verbally explain, if asked, why you are seeking late entry. Note, documentation explaining late entry may not be accepted by CBP.

Carry Documentation Explaining Late Entry: If you are arriving late due to circumstances beyond your control (e.g. late issuance of student visa or rescheduled flights). Ensure you are able to verbally explain, if asked, why you are seeking late entry. Note, documentation explaining late entry may not be accepted by CBP.

Prepare for Additional Screening: If you are arriving late, CBP may question your intentions for entry. Prepare to show documentation and verbally explain, if asked, your intentions to seek entry to the U.S. to pursue full-time studies as an international student at UC San Diego.

NOTE: Students must intend to enroll in the quarter they are seeking entry to the U.S. Students who are not enrolled and do not plan to enroll are advised not to seek entry as they may may face immigration issues.

Continuing Students: Seeking Entry to the U.S. After Start of Instruction

International students are strongly advised to plan their travel so they arrive in the U.S. in time to resume courses for the following academic term. There is no 'grace period' for late entry to the U.S. during the quarter. Note, entry to the U.S. is at the discretion of a Customs and Border Protection (CBP) Officer and is not guaranteed. Students who are traveling and re-entering during the quarter should carefully consider the following tips on mitigating risks associated with late entry:

Missed Instruction and Coursework: Arriving late may cause you to miss critical orientations and/or course instruction. This can significantly impact your academic success for the quarter. If you will not be able to enter before the start of classes,  connect with your undergraduate college or Academic Department to understand how late entry may impact you.

Missed Instruction and Coursework: Arriving late may cause you to miss critical orientations and/or course instruction. This can significantly impact your academic success for the quarter. If you will not be able to enter before the start of classes,  connect with your undergraduate college or Academic Department to understand how late entry may impact you.

Carry ISEO's Travel Support Letter: Students who are able to arrive BEFORE the add deadline for the current quarter are advised to print and carry ISEO's Travel Support Letter . Note, this document may not be accepted by CBP.

Carry ISEO's Travel Support Letter: Students who are able to arrive BEFORE the add deadline for the current quarter are advised to print and carry ISEO's Travel Support Letter . Note, this document may not be accepted by CBP.

Carry Documentation Explaining Late Entry: If you are arriving late or in the middle of the quarter and have the written permission from your instructors to do so, carry documentation reflecting this. Many students may travel internationally for a short period for conferences or other academic related activities with support from instructors to complete and keep up with coursework while away from campus. Ensure you gain documentation to support entry.

Carry Documentation Explaining Late Entry: If you are arriving late or in the middle of the quarter and have the written permission from your instructors to do so, carry documentation reflecting this. Many students may travel internationally for a short period for conferences or other academic related activities with support from instructors to complete and keep up with coursework while away from campus. Ensure you gain documentation to support entry.

Prepare for Additional Screening: If you are arriving late, CBP may question your intentions for entry and how you are able to maintain your enrollment requirements if physically located outside of the U.S. Prepare to show documentation and verbally explain, if asked, how you are maintaining your student status and your intentions to seek entry to the U.S. to resume full-time studies as an international student at UC San Diego.

NOTE: Students must intend to enroll in the quarter they are seeking entry to the U.S. unless they have been approved for a Reduced Course Load .

Port of Entry Delays

Possible Delays at the U.S. Port of Entry

When seeking entry to the U.S.,  most students are admitted quickly after a brief review of their travel documents and intentions to enter. However, there are situations where U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) officers may need more time to process your request for entry, which can cause delays.

Common Reasons for Delays

Secondary Inspection: Secondary inspection is an additional screening process conducted by U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) at a U.S. port of entry when an officer determines they need more time or information to decide whether to admit a traveler. CBP may direct you to a separate inspection area if they need to: Verify your visa, SEVIS, or school/program details due to missing documentation (missing Form I-20 or DS-2019, or SEVIS record not updated to reflect recent changes). Confirm information by calling a Designated School Official (DSO) or a Responsible Officer (RO) at UC San Diego. Resolve questions about your arrival date or program start date. Review your travel or immigration history. Verify your intention to maintain full-time studies if arriving after your program start date or start of classes.

Verify your visa, SEVIS, or school/program details due to missing documentation (missing Form I-20 or DS-2019, or SEVIS record not updated to reflect recent changes).

Confirm information by calling a Designated School Official (DSO) or a Responsible Officer (RO) at UC San Diego.

Resolve questions about your arrival date or program start date.

Review your travel or immigration history.

Verify your intention to maintain full-time studies if arriving after your program start date or start of classes.

Random CBP Screening: Even with complete documents, you may be selected for additional screening with no specific cause.

Customs or Baggage Holds: Your baggage may be delayed for screening if you carry restricted items, food, or large sums of money.

What Can You Do If Sent to Secondary Inspection?

The length of time the review may take place can vary at each port of entry and can range from as little as15–30 minutes to several hours, depending on the reason for the review.

Contact ISEO: Download ISEO's Emergency Card and have it handy! ISEO's Emergency Card contains important information and ways to contact ISEO if you are facing travel emergencies and may need support. Download ISEO's Emergency Card and keep a copy on your mobile device. CBP may also want to confirm details with your a Designated School Official (DSO) or Responsible Officer (RO) at UC San Diego. Having ISEO's phone number easily accessible can help speed up verification for CBP.

ISEO's Emergency Card contains important information and ways to contact ISEO if you are facing travel emergencies and may need support. Download ISEO's Emergency Card and keep a copy on your mobile device.

CBP may also want to confirm details with your a Designated School Official (DSO) or Responsible Officer (RO) at UC San Diego. Having ISEO's phone number easily accessible can help speed up verification for CBP.

Notify Family or Friends: During this time, your phone may be taken, restricting your ability to make contact. If you are delayed for several hours, contact your friends/family and ISEO once you are able to use your phone. Let them know: Your PID or UCSD Email Your location (airport and inspection area) Reason for the delay, if know Your estimated time of arrival on campus or if you may be missing a connecting flight and may need to rebook If you are unable to place a second call, you may want to ask them to contact ISEO and inform of us of your situation.

Your PID or UCSD Email

Your location (airport and inspection area)

Reason for the delay, if know

Your estimated time of arrival on campus or if you may be missing a connecting flight and may need to rebook

If you are unable to place a second call, you may want to ask them to contact ISEO and inform of us of your situation.

Stay Calm & Respectful: CBP officers are responsible for ensuring travelers meet entry requirements. Remaining respectful and cooperative will help the process go more smoothly.

Provide Clear Answers: Answer questions truthfully. If you do not understand a question, politely ask the officer to repeat or explain it. Keep answers concise and to the point to avoid confusion.

Show Your Documents: Present your passport, visa, Form I-20 (F-1) or DS-2019 (J-1), and other supporting documents when requested. Ensure you keep these in your carry-on bag, not in checked luggage.

Prioritize Health Needs: If you require prescription drugs or other health accommodations, kindly communicate this to the CBP officers.

Request an Explanation if Denied Entry: If you are refused entry, CBP will explain the reason and provide paperwork. See more information above regarding visa revocations.

Can You be Denied Entry or Allowed to Temporarily Enter?

Yes, entry to the U.S. is at the discretion of a Customs and Border Protection (CBP) Officer and is not guaranteed. If you are refused entry, CBP will explain the reason and provide paperwork and may revoke or cancel your visa. Request an Explanation if Denied Entry. See more information above regarding visa revocations.

Submit the Visa Event Reporting Form in iServices, if applicable: Keep ISEO informed on the status of your visa  so that we can advise on potential adjustments necessary to your Form I-20 or DS-2019. If your visa is revoked along with denial of entry, report this to ISEO by logging into iServices.ucsd.edu and submitting the Visa Event Reporting Form.

On occasion, students who are missing documentation at the port of entry may be permitted to temporarily enter the U.S. through an I-515A Notice , requiring that you resolve any concerns within 30 days of arrival. If you receive an I-515A Notice, follow the required steps to resolve it.

Visa Delays Abroad (Administrative Processing)

What is Administrative Processing?

After your visa interview, the consular officer may inform you that your application is in “Administrative Processing” under Section 221(g) of the Immigration and Nationality Act. This means your visa application requires additional review by the U.S. Department of State before a decision can be made. Administrative processing is also known as a "visa refusal". The review may involve a security or background check related to security or criminal history, national security concerns, technology or sensitive research fields subject to export controls (for some STEM students, or previous visa or immigration issues. The length of time the review may take place can vary from a few weeks to various months. In most cases, you will receive a 221(g) notice indicating your case is pending further review.

For more information on administrative processing, please review the U.S. Department of State website: Administrative Processing Information .

Common Reasons for Administrative Processing

Security-Related Checks Your name or background triggers a security or law enforcement database check. Certain nationalities or travel histories may prompt additional reviews.

Your name or background triggers a security or law enforcement database check.

Certain nationalities or travel histories may prompt additional reviews.

Technology Alert List (TAL) Students in STEM fields involving sensitive technologies (like aerospace, AI, nuclear, biotech, or cybersecurity) may need export control or security clearance.

Students in STEM fields involving sensitive technologies (like aerospace, AI, nuclear, biotech, or cybersecurity) may need export control or security clearance.

Incomplete Documentation Missing or inconsistent information in your DS-160, I-20/DS-2019, lack of clear ties to your home country, or financial proof.

Missing or inconsistent information in your DS-160, I-20/DS-2019, lack of clear ties to your home country, or financial proof.

Previous Immigration or Visa Issues Prior overstays, visa denials, violation of status, or complicated travel histories.

Prior overstays, visa denials, violation of status, or complicated travel histories.

Random or Discretionary Checks Sometimes cases are flagged randomly for extra screening.

Sometimes cases are flagged randomly for extra screening.

How Long Does It Take and What Can You Do?

The length of time the review may take place can vary from a few weeks to various months and cannot be expedited. When you receive a 221(g) notice indicating your case is pending further review, review the notice for additional steps you must take.

Submit the Visa Event Reporting Form in iServices: Keep ISEO informed on the status of your visa issuance so that we can advise on potential adjustments necessary to your Form I-20 or DS-2019. Reporting by logging into iServices.ucsd.edu and submitting the Visa Event Reporting Form.

Submit Requested Information: If the consular official asks for additional course of study information, this will be listed on your 221(g) notice. Contact your academic department for a support letter. We have provided guidance for departments here on what information to include. Respond promptly if the embassy requests additional documents.

Keep your College/Department Updated: If subject to long processing times, students are encouraged to keep their department (graduate students) or college (undergraduate students) informed to plan for potential delays in coming to campus.

Check for Updates: Processing times and outcomes are at the discretion of the U.S. Department of State.You can check your visa status online using the U.S. Department of State’s CEAC portal.

Adjust Travel Plans: ISEO recommends that students understand the "fare rules" when purchasing airline tickets. Departure and arrival plans may change depending on travel document and visa issuance timelines.  It is recommended that you purchase a plane ticket that can be changed or refunded if your travel plans change. Avoid making final travel plans until the visa is issued.

Request Updates to Form I-20/DS-2019 , if applicable.

What is a Visa Denial?

A visa denial occurs when a U.S. consular officer determines during a visa interview that the applicant does not meet the eligibility requirements under U.S. immigration law and refuses to issue the visa. If you are denied a visa, you will be informed of the reason for the denial and be given the opportunity to reapply if you can provide additional evidence to support your case. Before reapplying, be sure you understand the grounds for your denial so that you can appeal effectively.

Common Reasons for Visa Denial

Section 214(b) – Nonimmigrant Intent This is the most common reason for F-1 and J-1 visa denials. The student fails to convince the consular officer that they will return to their home country after completing their program. This can be due to weak ties to home country (e.g., family, property, job prospects) or the student failing to articulate long term goals (no intent to immigrate to the U.S. permanently).

This is the most common reason for F-1 and J-1 visa denials. The student fails to convince the consular officer that they will return to their home country after completing their program. This can be due to weak ties to home country (e.g., family, property, job prospects) or the student failing to articulate long term goals (no intent to immigrate to the U.S. permanently).

Section 221(g) - Failure to Overcome Administrative Processing If you failed to overcome the consular's reasons for placing your visa in administrative processing. This may include missing or inconsistent information in your DS-160, I-20/DS-2019, lack of clear ties to your home country, documents required, or financial proof.

If you failed to overcome the consular's reasons for placing your visa in administrative processing. This may include missing or inconsistent information in your DS-160, I-20/DS-2019, lack of clear ties to your home country, documents required, or financial proof.

Previous Immigration or Visa Issues Prior overstays, visa denials, violation of status, or complicated travel histories.

Prior overstays, visa denials, violation of status, or complicated travel histories.

Security-Related Checks Your name or background triggers a security or law enforcement database check. Certain nationalities or travel histories may prompt additional reviews.

Your name or background triggers a security or law enforcement database check. Certain nationalities or travel histories may prompt additional reviews.

What Can You Do?

Students may reapply for a visa after denial. There is no mandatory waiting period, but students should only reapply if they have new or stronger information that addresses the reason for the previous denial.

Submit the Visa Event Reporting Form in iServices: Keep ISEO informed on the status of your visa issuance so that we can advise on potential adjustments necessary to your Form I-20 or DS-2019. Reporting by logging into iServices.ucsd.edu and submitting the Visa Event Reporting Form.

Schedule a new Visa Appointment : Ensure you review your denial letter or reasons you were denied a visa and make improvements to address these concerns. Complete steps to submit a new Form DS-160 and pay all required fees. Schedule a new interview date.

Keep your College/Department Updated: If subject to a visa denial and must reapply, students are encouraged to keep their department (graduate students) or college (undergraduate students) informed to plan for potential delays in coming to campus.

Adjust Travel Plans: ISEO recommends that students understand the "fare rules" when purchasing airline tickets. Departure and arrival plans may change depending on travel document and visa issuance timelines.  It is recommended that you purchase a plane ticket that can be changed or refunded if your travel plans change. Avoid making final travel plans until the visa is issued.

Request Updates to Form I-20/DS-2019 , if applicable.

What is a Visa Revocation?

A visa revocation means that a visa that was previously issued is being canceled or revoked by the U.S. Department of State or a consular officer. Unlike a denial (which happens before a visa is issued), revocation can happen at any time after issuance, including while the student is inside or outside the U.S.

A revoked visa is no longer valid for entry into the United States—even if it has not expired. Note, a visa revocation does NOT directly impact a student's ability to maintain a valid Form I-20 or Form DS-2019 in the U.S. In other words, a visa revocation does not automatically mean a student mu st leave th e U.S. immediately if they are a already i nsi de the c country maintaining a valid SEVIS record .

Common Reasons for Visa Revocation

Security-Related Checks Your name or background triggers a security or law enforcement database check. Certain nationalities or travel histories may prompt additional reviews.

Your name or background triggers a security or law enforcement database check.

Certain nationalities or travel histories may prompt additional reviews.

Technology Alert List (TAL) Students in STEM fields involving sensitive technologies (like aerospace, AI, nuclear, biotech, or cybersecurity) may need export control or security clearance.

Students in STEM fields involving sensitive technologies (like aerospace, AI, nuclear, biotech, or cybersecurity) may need export control or security clearance.

Incomplete Documentation Missing or inconsistent information in your DS-160, I-20/DS-2019, lack of clear ties to your home country, or financial proof.

Missing or inconsistent information in your DS-160, I-20/DS-2019, lack of clear ties to your home country, or financial proof.

Previous Immigration or Visa Issues Prior overstays, visa denials, violation of status, or complicated travel histories.

Prior overstays, visa denials, violation of status, or complicated travel histories.

Random or Discretionary Checks Sometimes cases are flagged randomly for extra screening.

Sometimes cases are flagged randomly for extra screening.

The reasons a visa is being revoked is not always clear. UC San Diego does not have access to this information and recommends you seek guidance directly from an immigration attorney.

Ways You May Learn of a Visa Revocation

A student might learn that their visa has been revoked in several ways, and unfortunately, it’s not always communicated clearly or promptly. Common scenarios include:

Direct Notification from the U.S. Government Email or Letter from the U.S. Department of State Notification from U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP)

Email or Letter from the U.S. Department of State

Notification from U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP)

During Travel Denied Boarding by the Airline Refused Entry at the U.S. Port of Entry

Denied Boarding by the Airline

Refused Entry at the U.S. Port of Entry

From UC San Diego If the revocation is tied to a broader policy change (e.g., mass cancellations), the Department of State or DHS may notify schools/program sponsors first

If the revocation is tied to a broader policy change (e.g., mass cancellations), the Department of State or DHS may notify schools/program sponsors first

What Can You Do?

Once your visa is revoked, it is advised that you seek advice from an immigration attorney. Depending on your current location, the reason for revocation, and your future plans, an immigration attorney may be able to help you navigate what options are available to you. Take the following steps:

Retain All Documentation: If you receive notice of a revocation, ensure you keep a copy.

Submit the Visa Event Reporting Form in iServices: Keep ISEO informed on the status of your visa  so that we can advise on potential adjustments necessary to your Form I-20 or DS-2019. Reporting by logging into iServices.ucsd.edu and submitting the Visa Event Reporting Form.

Keep your College/Department Updated: Students are encouraged to keep their department (graduate students) or college (undergraduate students) informed to plan for potential delays in coming or staying on campus.

Contact an Immigration Attorney: Visit iSafety.ucsd.edu for legal resources and tips on finding an immigration attorney.

SEVIS Record Termination

What is a SEVIS Termination?

When your SEVIS Record is terminated, this means that student means that the status of the records used to generate your Form I-20 or Form DS-2019 within the Student and Exchange Visitor Information System (SEVIS) is no longer active. The termination notifies the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) that you are out of status for immigration purposes . Terminations are not always due to status violations and can happen for a number of reasons.

Common Reasons for SEVIS Termination

UC San Diego, or the school currently holding your SEVIS Record, manages your record and must report key events, such as enrollment each quarter, changes to address, major, or if needed, status violations. In addition, U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) may also initiate a SEVIS Termination if you are approved for a change of status to a different visa category in the U.S. Common reasons include:

Failure to enroll full-time without an approved reduced course load

Unauthorized employment (working without proper OPT/CPT or J-1 authorization).

Failure to extend program end date (e.g., overstaying your I-20/DS-2019 end date without extension).

Failure to report required information (address changes, employment info during OPT, etc.).

Program withdrawal or suspension from school.

Approved Leave of Absence

Change of status approved (e.g., from F-1 to H-1B), which ends the F-1/J-1 status.

Students who do not receive clear guidance from ISEO regarding the reason for their SEVIS Termination may need to seek guidance from an immigration attorney.

Ways You May Learn of your SEVIS Termination

You may receive an email from the International Services and Engagement Office (ISEO) regarding your SEVIS Termination. Review the email you receive outlining next steps.

Impacts of SEVIS Termination

Once a student's SEVIS Record is terminated, they are no longer eligible for F or J Visa Benefits.

Grace Period: You are no longer eligible for a 60-day grace period and must take action within 15 days of termination.

Travel & Re-Entry: Students whose records are terminated may not use their terminated SEVIS record (I-20 or DS-2019) to travel and re-enter the U.S.

Employment: You may not engage in any type of on-campus employment or off-campus employment. This may also include stipends, fellowships, or any funds paid to you by the university.

Changes to Form I-20/DS-2019: Any additional changes to the Form I-20 or DS-2019 is not permitted on a terminated SEVIS Record, including program extensions, reduced course loads, or change of level.

It is important for you to speak to an International Student Advisor as soon as you learn of your termination to understand impacts to your F-1 or J-1 visa benefits.

What Can You Do to Regain Status?

UC San Diego students who have a terminated or completed SEVIS record are considered to be out of status . There are two ways to regain status. Review each option to understand if you are eligible.

Travel and Re-entry for F-1/J-1 students

Reinstatement for F-1 students

What Else to Consider

Unexpectedly facing a visa denial, revocation, or other delays to begin or resume your program activities in the U.S. can be frustrating. Outside from the direct legal impacts of these events, students are also encouraged to consider the following factors as they navigate next steps.

Enrollment & Academic Planning

Undergraduate Students: Contact the appropriate college and academic department through the Virtual Advising Center .  For questions about deferring admission, visit the Undergraduate Admissions Portal.

Graduate Students: Contact the appropriate Academic Department.

Undergraduate Students: Contact the appropriate college and academic department through the Virtual Advising Center .

Graduate Students: Contact the appropriate Academic Department (Graduate Coordinator) to understand what options are available to you.

Funding, Employment, and Fees

International students are not permitted to engage in any type of on-campus employment when located outside of the U.S. Students should inform their hiring department of any delays to arrival which may impact their on-campus appointments. International students who who do not hold an Active SEVIS Record, regardless of location, do not have proper employment authorization to engage in any type of on-campus or off-campus employment in the U.S.

All students are expected to be knowledgeable of and adhere to the Registrar’s Schedule of Refunds when considering withdrawal, gap quarters, or a leave of absence. Exceptions for withdrawals and leave of absence policies cannot be made due to visa delays. We highly encourage students to review the Registrar’s Schedule of Refunds when considering their academic plans. For additional questions:

Undergraduate Students: Contact the appropriate college and academic department through the Virtual Advising Center for enrollment questions. For questions regarding withdrawals, contact the Office of the Registrars.

Graduate Students: Contact the appropriate Academic Department (Graduate Coordinator) to understand how your current situation impacts your funding, employment, or fees.

Housing, Health & Wellness

On-Campus Housing: How will visa delays impact any on-campus housing contracts? Touch base with Housing Dining and Hospitality (HDH) or your respective Residence Hall to understand.

Off-Campus Housing: If you have an active lease or housing arrangement off campus, touch base with your leasing office and roommates, to communicate visa delays.

Health & Wellness Resources : Understand what health and wellness resources are available to you depending on your location and enrollment status.

Personal Belongings: If you currently have belongings in the U.S. such as clothes, beddings, a car, or a bike, and need to retrieve them due to prolonged visa delays, how might you retrieve them? Make a plan with friends or relatives located in the U.S.

Safety & Legal Resources

Contact an Immigration Attorney: It is always advised that you consult an immigration attorney to understand how these delays will impact you. Visit ISEO's Legal Resources Page for more information.

Emergency Resources: Visit iSafety.ucsd.edu for general health and safety resources.

Departmental Support Documents

Departmental Support Documents:

As part of the review process, international students applying for F-1 or J-1 visas may be asked to submit additional supporting documentation from their academic department at UC San Diego. This request usually includes, but is not limited to, the following:

Copy of departmental description of the degree program

Support letter (on letterhead) from an academic advisor/department describing: the student’s program of study, goals of the student’s research and any practical applications, sources and amounts of any U.S. government money to be used to support that research; and description of any export-controlled technology and/or information that will be shared with the applicant.

the student’s program of study, goals of the student’s research and any practical applications, sources and amounts of any U.S. government money to be used to support that research;

and description of any export-controlled technology and/or information that will be shared with the applicant.

CV/resume of the student’s faculty advisor*

*If the student does not have a faculty advisor, please indicate this in the department support letter.

ISEO appreciates your assistance in supporting our international students so that they can begin their programs of study successfully at UC San Diego. If you have any questions regarding these requirements or this updated process, please do not hesitate to contact ISEO at iContact.ucsd.edu .

Information compiled from SUNY College of Environmental Science and Forestry and Carnegie Mellon University .

Reporting Visa Events to ISEO

Please keep ISEO informed on the status of your visa issuance by submitting the Visa Event Reporting Form. We encourage you to thoroughly review the information on our website to help you navigate what options are available to you.

We understand that visa delays or denials can cause stress and anxiety. If you find that you are struggling with the impacts of these delays, we encourage you to submit a Triton Concern Form to reach UC San Diego’s Student Affairs Case Management Services . This form will route directly to a case manager who will then reach out to you directly for additional support options.

Submit the Visa Event Reporting Form in iServices :

New Admits: Find the Starting a New Program category in the left menu. Select the Visa Event Reporting Form .

Find the Starting a New Program category in the left menu. Select the Visa Event Reporting Form .

Current and Returning Students: Find the Verification and Support Services category in the left menu. Select the Visa Event Reporting Form.

Find the Verification and Support Services category in the left menu. Select the Visa Event Reporting Form.

Prepare a PDF copy of any supporting documents for ISEO to review.

Submit all of the required eForms and any additional optional eForms. You will receive a confirmation email when your request has been successfully submitted.

Travel and Visa Application

Visa Application

International Travel

Travel Signature

Check in for SEVIS Activation

Visa Delays and Denials