Urgent Care & After-Hours Options

If this is a life-threatening emergency, dial 9-1-1. Also see options for Emergency Care .

You may be experiencing health concerns or issues that are not life-threatening but cannot wait for a regular primary care or reproductive health appointment. In this case, you have several options including in-person urgent care and express care visits, and telehealth visits with SHS, Express Care, or LiveHealth Online.

Not sure whether you need a regular appointment or urgent care services? Our Where to Get Care guide can assist you.

Insurance coverage for services varies according to your health insurance plan. Some plans pay for urgent or after-hours care while others only cover emergencies. Many options on this page are accessible to those with UC SHIP or RAFT. Students without UC SHIP should check with their private insurance plan to see where after-hours and urgent care services are covered.

Nurse Advice Line

If you are currently sick or injured and need medical advice, call (858) 534-3300 to speak with a registered nurse who can assist you. This service is available 24/7 to all students at no cost.

Student Health Services has an urgent care on campus. You can walk into urgent care for an illness or injury that requires prompt attention , no appointment is needed. There is no cost to be seen in SHS Urgent Care for students with UC SHIP; there is a $20 copay for students with RAFT. Those without UC SHIP or RAFT can also be seen in SHS Urgent Care but fee for service charges will apply. See our Cost of Services page for details.

SHS Urgent Care is open during regular building hours and is located in the Student Health and Wellness Center on Library Walk across from Target (see map at right). The Urgent Care entrance is on the west side of the building near the parking lot.

Please note : Patients seen in u rgent c are will be taken in the order of the seriousness of their medical condition , not the order in which they check-in . Urgent care is reserved for patients with symptoms requiring immediate care; those with non-urgent concerns may be scheduled into an appointment and asked to return.

Other Options for Off-Campus Urgent & After-Hours Care

When SHS is closed or you are unable to get to campus, you have several options for urgent, non-emergency care.

Telehealth (Video) Visits

SHS offers after-hours telehealth appointments for some visit types. Schedule a telehealth appointment via MyStudentChart or call (858) 534-3300. There is no cost for telehealth visits for students with UC SHIP or RAFT.

Express Care Video Visit

UCSD Health Express Care offers telehealth appointments and is open daily, including weekends and some holidays. Learn more about Express Care services ; telehealth appointments can be scheduled in MyStudentChart . The copay with UC SHIP is $10 . The cost without insurance is $49 per visit. Students without UC SHIP should contact their insurance provider first to verify coverage and copays.

LiveHealth Online

LiveHealth Online is another option for telehealth visits and is available 24/7. Visit the LiveHealth Online website to register or see their FAQ page for more information. The copay with UC SHIP is $25 . T he cost without insurance is $ 55 per visit .

In-Person Urgent or Express Care Locations

UCSD Health Express Care offers in-person appointments and is open daily, including weekends and some holidays. See Express Care locations ; in-person appointments can be scheduled in MyStudentChart . The copay with UC SHIP is $10. Students without UC SHIP should contact their insurance provider first to verify coverage and copays.

Local Urgent Care Centers

SHS does not specifically endorse any local urgent care facility. We are listing these facilities as resources close to campus. Students with UC SHIP have a $25 copay at the UCSD Health Urgent Care and a $50 copay at non-UCSD Health urgent cares in the Anthem network . Students without UC SHIP should contact their insurance provider first to verify coverage and copays.

UC San Diego Health Urgent Care 0.7 miles from campus 8910 Villa La Jolla Drive, La Jolla 92037 (858) 249-6800 Optional: Reserve a spot online

Scripps Clinic Torrey Pines Urgent Care (Open 24 hours) 2 miles from campus 10 710 North Torrey Pines Road, La Jolla 92037 (858) 554-8638 Optional: Let them know you’re on your way

Marque Urgent Care — UTC 2.4 miles from campus 4085 Governor Drive, San Diego 92122 (858) 693-6266 Optional: Reserve a spot online

Sharp Rees - Stealy Sorrento Mesa Urgent Care 3.6 miles from campus 10243 Genetic Center Drive, San Diego 92121 (858) 526-6100

For Students with Kaiser Insurance

If you are covered by Kaiser, please see their helpful guide on where to access care .

Cost of Services

Clinical Laboratory

Gender-Affirming Care

Radiology (X-ray)

Reproductive Health

Travel Clearance