Enrolling in Classes

Special Enrollment

Returning to UC San Diego After an Absence (Undergraduate Students)

Returning to UC San Diego After an Absence (Undergraduate Students)

Returning to UC San Diego is a quick and simple process, whether you’ve been gone just one quarter or longer. Follow the steps below to begin.

If you have only been absent for one quarter, you are still considered a continuing student and can proceed to WebReg.

If you have been absent for two or more quarters, you must follow a few steps before returning to UC San Diego. After you have completed your online request to return, you will receive a status update via email with some follow-up steps for you to complete.

Note: This process was formerly referred to as “Readmission”.

Submission Periods

February 20, 2026 through August 1, 2026

February 20, 2026

August 21, 2026 through November 1, 2026

November 1, 2026

November 13, 2026 through February 1, 2027

November 13, 2026

February 1, 2027

Summer 2026: Please submit a request to return for Fall Quarter 2026. Upon receiving confirmation of your return, email returntoUCSD@ucsd.edu informing our office that you would like to attend summer session courses.

Summer 2026: Please submit a request to return for Fall Quarter 2026. Upon receiving confirmation of your return, email returntoUCSD@ucsd.edu informing our office that you would like to attend summer session courses.

Step 1: Before Submitting Your Request to Return

Clear any outstanding holds .

Review your tuition rate and read up on the Tuition Stability Plan .

If you have been dismissed for academic or non-academic misconduct, please follow the request procedures outlined on the Center for Student Accountability, Growth, and Education website.

If you have been dismissed for academic or non-academic misconduct, please follow the request procedures outlined on the Center for Student Accountability, Growth, and Education website.

Step 2: Review Additional Circumstances for Returning to UC San Diego

Review these additional circumstances to determine if any apply to you. If they do, follow the instructions in that section.

If you left the university while on Academic Notice or Subject to Disqualification:

The Registrar's Office will forward your request to your undergraduate college's Academic Advising Office of review.

Consult with your college advisor and major department advisor to discuss enrollment plans and address any concerns before you enroll in classes.

If you left the university after being academically disqualified:

Review the Returning to UC San Diego after Disqualification information from the UC San Diego website.

If you were disqualified for not satisfying the Entry Level Writing Requirement (ELWR):

Review the Returning to UC San Diego After ELWR-Disqualification information on the Analytical Writing Program website.

If you have been absent for three or more quarters:

Consult with your college advisor before you enroll in classes.

If you have attended another institution since leaving UCSD:

You must submit official transcripts to the Office of Admissions regardless of the length of attendance, whether courses were completed, or whether you believe the record will affect your chances for returning. If you provide incomplete or incorrect information about the schools you have attended, your return to UCSD may be delayed Transcripts are accepted electronically via the vendors and methods below: Credential Solutions Digitary 'Accelerate' with Digitary VIA CHESICC eSCRIP-SAFE eTranscriptCA Joint Military Transcripts National Student Clearinghouse* Naviance** Parchment Exchange Scoir

Transcripts are accepted electronically via the vendors and methods below: Credential Solutions Digitary 'Accelerate' with Digitary VIA CHESICC eSCRIP-SAFE eTranscriptCA Joint Military Transcripts National Student Clearinghouse* Naviance** Parchment Exchange Scoir

Credential Solutions

'Accelerate' with Digitary VIA

Joint Military Transcripts

National Student Clearinghouse*

Parchment Exchange

Transcripts are accepted via postal mail to the address below: University of California, San Diego Office of Admissions Attn: Transcripts 9500 Gilman Dr., Dept. 0021 La Jolla, CA 92093-0021 Transcripts are accepted via certified courier to the address below: University of California San Diego Student Services Center Fourth Floor South 402 Myers Drive, Suite 455 La Jolla, CA 92093-0021

Transcripts are accepted via postal mail to the address below:

Transcripts are accepted via postal mail to the address below:

Transcripts are accepted via certified courier to the address below:

Transcripts are accepted via certified courier to the address below:

Second baccalaureate degrees are not available at UC San Diego. If it is determined that you received a baccalaureate from another institution, your request to return to UCSD will be canceled immediately .

If you are returning to UC San Diego after active duty:

Students who must report for active duty while enrolled in a term at UC San Diego are subject to the same return regulations as all undergraduate students at UC San Diego. Please refer to the return procedures as outlined on this page.

For undergraduate students who are called to active duty in the United States Military as a result of national emergency or mobilization of reserve forces, including the National Guard, and re-enroll at the university, the time remaining in their six-year tuition cohort period will be extended. Students should submit a copy of their orders with their request to return to UC San Diego. Contact vao@ucsd.edu for more information regarding a fee waiver or cohort period extension.

Students should submit a copy of their orders with their request to return to UC San Diego. Contact vao@ucsd.edu for more information regarding a fee waiver or cohort period extension.

If you are an international student:

Contact the International Services and Engagement Office (ISEO) at (858) 534-3730 for immigration regulations and documents for returning international students.

Step 3: Submit Your Request to Return Online

Simply login with your PID and PAC , and follow the instructions to complete your return request during the filing periods listed in the table above.

A non-refundable filing fee of $70.00 will be charged to your UCSD student account.

A One-Time Document Fee may also be charged to your UCSD student account, if applicable

Submit Your Request to Return to UC San Diego

Questions? Please contact the Registrar's Office at returntoUCSD@ucsd.edu .