Enrolling in Classes

Undergraduate Enrollment

How to Get Ready for a New Quarter

How to Get Ready for a New Quarter

If you're new to UC San Diego, use this checklist to make sure you're ready to start your first quarter. After your first quarter, you can use this checklist as a reminder.

Note: This checklist is not all inclusive. You may want to print it out and add items of your own.

Check your enrollment status

If you wait-listed a class during enrollment, view WebReg to find out if you have been added.

Know the add/ drop/ change deadlines for classes.

Buy your textbooks and class materials

Fall quarter, use the Bookstore's online tool to find textbooks for your course .

You can buy your textbooks at the UC San Diego Bookstore ( map ) in the Price Center.

Bookstore tips: Print a book list for your classes at one of the computer stations on the first floor of the Price Center. If you need to return a textbook, bring a copy of your WebReg schedule to prove you dropped the class.

Print a book list for your classes at one of the computer stations on the first floor of the Price Center.

If you need to return a textbook, bring a copy of your WebReg schedule to prove you dropped the class.

Check courses.ucsd.edu for a list of other class resources. At the first main lecture, your instructor will tell you if you'll need any other materials.

Get your campus ID card

You should receive your campus ID at orientation. If you don't:

If you live in a residence hall, you'll receive it on move-in day.

If you live off campus, or if you don't receive it on move-in day, pick it up at Student Financial Solutions (see map and business hours ) on the third floor of the Student Services Center.

Find out more about your campus ID card .

Know when your classes start

Fall quarter, classes begin on Thursday of Week 0.

Winter and Spring quarters, classes begin on Monday of Week 1.

Check WebReg to find out when your class will meet for the first time. Discussion and lab sections of classes usually meet after the first main lecture.

Know your class schedule

Print your WebReg schedule.

Find your classroom buildings using the campus map .

Learn how campus waypoints work and keep your eyes open for them.

Before classes begin, go to your classrooms to plan the fastest route for the 10-minute passing periods.

Arrange to pay your student fees

Check the billing due dates to find out when to pay your student fees. If you charge your books to your student account, your Bookstore charges may be due before your registration fees.

Learn about different ways to pay your bill .

If you want a parent or other payer to pay your bill, set up authorization (log-in required).

Visit the Student Financial Solutions website for other billing information and options regarding your student account.

Find out about parking and transportation

Learn about student parking and other commuting options .

Get familiar with campus shuttles and other ways to get from one point to another .

Purchase or waive student health insurance

All students must have health insurance. If you already have insurance and don't want to purchase the Student Health Insurance Plan from UCSD, submit the health fee waiver before the deadline.

Be aware of dates and deadlines

See a list of Academic Calendars , which includes information on holidays, deadlines, exam schedules, enrollment deadlines, and more.

Verify department deadlines for specific courses on the Schedule of Classes . Some classes, such as labs, have a separate drop policy.