Student Services

Sponsored Students

Sponsor Organizations

Sponsor Organizations

We work closely with sponsored program agencies such as the Institute of International Education (IIE), LASPAU, and AMIDEAST, to name a few. In addition, we have relationships with the staff at the Cultural and Educational Divisions of the foreign embassies and consulates in the U.S., and have met with representatives of foreign employers, non-governmental organizations, and other institutions abroad who send students to UC San Diego.

We are happy to provide exceptional advising and support services that are tailored to the needs of sponsors and their students.

In addition, the Sponsored Students & Programs Unit welcomes short-term visits from current prospective sponsored program agencies to UC San Diego. Please use the Sponsor Visit Request Form below to inquire about scheduling such a visit.

Vingroup VinA Scholarships for UC San Diego

Program Overview

The Science and Technology Scholarship Program for Overseas Study for Master’s and Doctoral Degrees” is a component of the Science and Technology Resources Development Project for Vietnam funded by VinGroup. An affiliate of VinGroup, the VinAcademy Education & Training LLC (VinA), established a private, non-profit university named VinUniversity. The scholarship program, administered by VinUniversity, allows Vietnamese master’s and doctoral students to receive funding to pursue degrees in STEM subjects at UC San Diego. More information on the program can be found at scholarships.vinuni.edu.vn .

The Application Process

Applicants will first apply to VinUniversity.

For successful applicants, UC San Diego will then share the list of applicants with their respective departments to facilitate the admission process to UC San Diego.

It is important to note that admission to UC Diego is not guaranteed. More information on the application process can be found at scholarships.vinuni.edu.vn .

A complete list of UC San Diego’s master’s and doctoral programs can be found at grad.ucsd.edu/admissions/programs.html .

Scholarship Details

The scholarship covers:

Tuition fees, stipend, round trip airfare, insurance, professional development grant and allowances for settling-in and reintegration.

There are no application fees for students.

UC San Diego is very excited to collaborate with VinA and to welcome successful students to campus.

Information for Current or Prospective Sponsor Visitors

The Sponsored Students & Programs Unit encourages visits from current or prospective sponsored program agencies from all over the world. A prospective sponsored program visitor is a representative from that agency or institute who requests to visit UC San Diego for the purpose of learning more about our campus and the specialized services we offer for international sponsored students. Such visitors are typically on campus from a few hours to a full day.

Sponsor Visit Request Form:

To request meetings with senior administrators and/or academic divisions, research units, or professional schools, the Sponsored Students Services & Programs Unit asks that the requesting party submit the completed Sponsor Visit Request Form at least 10 days prior to the proposed visit date. More advanced notice may result in increased availability of requested meeting participants. Additional meetings requested and/or visitors added less than 10 days before the proposed visit date are unlikely to be accommodated.

Upon receipt of the Sponsor Visit Request Form, the Sponsored Students Unit will consult with the appropriate academic divisions and administrators to determine whether we are able to support the requested visit. We will respond to your request within 2 business days of receiving the form.

Hotel, Transportation, and General Information:

Please see the following overview of travel and accommodation resources in the UC San Diego area.

The following local hotels offer UC San Diego rates. Please ask for the UC San Diego rate at the time you make your reservation:

La Jolla Shores Hotel

Estancia La Jolla

Sheraton La Jolla

Residence Inn by Marriott

Interpretation Services:

We welcome the use of interpreters during meetings. If given advance notice, the Sponsored Students & Programs Unit may be able to provide interpretation services, depending on interpreter availability.

Current Events and Information:

See What's Happening at UC San Diego and Events @UC San Diego for current information about activities and events on campus.

Current or Recent Sponsors

The following organizations are currently sponsoring or have recently sponsored degree-seeking UC San Diego students at either the graduate or undergraduate level:

Bahrain: Bahrain Defense Force

Belgium: Belgian American Educational Foundation (BAEF)

Brazil: Brazil Science Mobility Program (Ciencia Sem Fronteiras)

Brazil: Coordenação de Aperfeicoamento de Pessoal de Nível Superior (CAPES)

Brazil: CNPq: Conselho Nacional de Desenvolvimento Cientifico e Tecnologico

Chile: Chile Central Bank

Chile: CONICYT: Comision Nacional de Investigacion Cientifica y Tecnologica

China: China Scholarship Council

China: Guangzhou Government

Colombia: COLFUTURO: Fundacion para el Futuro de Colombia

Indonesia: PT Bank Rakyat Indonesia (Persero)

Japan: Japan Student Services Organization (JASSO)

Japan: Denso Corporation

Japan: East Japan Railway Company

Japan: Financial Services Industry

Japan: Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries

Japan: Ministry of Defense

Japan: Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry

Japan: Ministry of Education, Sports, Science and Technology

Japan: Ministry of Finance

Japan: Ministry of Health, Labor and Welfare

Japan: Ministry of Internal Affairs and Communications

Japan: Ministry of Land, Investment, Transportation and Tourism

Japan: Nomura Securities Corporation

Japan: Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Bank

Kazakhstan: JSC Center for International Programs

Kuwait: Cultural Office

Kuwait: Institute of Scientific Research

Malaysia: Genting

Mexico: CONACYT: Consejo Nacional de Ciencia y Tecnologia

Mongolia: Grape City LLC

Mongolia: Mongolian Mining Machinery Supplies LLC

Mongolia: State Training Fund

Spain: la Caixa Foundation

Saudi Arabia: Aramco Services Company

Saudi Arabia: KAUST: King Abdullah University of Science and Technology

Saudi Arabia: Saudi Arabian Cultural Mission (SACM)

Saudi Arabia: Saudi Arabia Basic Industries Corporation (SABIC)

Singapore: Agency for Science, Technology and Research (A*STAR)

Singapore: DSO National Laboratories

Singapore: Ministry of Defense

Sweden: Centrala studiestödsnämnden (CSN)

Thailand: Royal Thai Embassy

Turkey: Ministry of Education

Turkey: Treasury

Turkey: Turkish Petroleum Corporation

United Arab Emirates: Abu Dhabi National Oil Company (ADNOC)

United Arab Emirates: Scholarship Coordination Office

United States: University of California Institute for Mexico and the United States (UCMEXUS)

United States: Fulbright Foreign Student Program

United States: U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID)

United States: LASPAU (Academic and Professional Programs for the Americas)

United States: Institute of International Education (IIE)

Sponsored Students

Sponsor Organizations