Enrolling in Classes

Undergraduate Enrollment

How to Add a Class

How to Add a Class

Find out how to add a class for both undergraduate and graduate students.

Deadlines are as of 11:59 p.m. on date posted. Transactions requiring in-person assistance have a deadline of 4:30 p.m. on date posted.

Before classes begin, through Week 2

To add a class that's open, follow the regular enrollment procedure in WebReg . If you wish to switch sections of course, it is considered a drop and add transaction, and all drop/ add/ change deadlines apply.

If a class is full, you may add your name to the wait list via WebReg , and follow the wait list procedures .

Graduate students, work with your graduate coordinators when altering your quarter class schedule to ensure you are meeting all campus, graduate program, and field area requirements and standards.

Note : The official university deadline to add classes (including Special Studies classes ) is Friday of Week 2.

Week 3 through Week 10

Requests to add classes after Week 2 are not guaranteed. Check with the academic department offering the course for specific guidelines.

Submit a request through EASy , giving enough time to be approved by 4 p.m. on Friday of the final week of instruction.

EASy Instructions: Further enrollment action may be required by the student once the EASy request has been approved. Make sure to keep an eye out for the notifications from the EASy system.

Summer Session classes

If you are a Summer Session student, the deadline to add a class is the end of Week 1. For dates and information on Summer Session 3, see the Summer Session calendar . If you wish to switch sections of a course, it is considered a drop and add transaction, all drop/ add/ change deadlines apply.

Requests to add classes after Week 1  are not guaranteed.  Check with the academic department offering the course for specific guidelines.

Submit a request through EASy , giving enough time to be approved by 4 p.m. the day before final exams begin for Summer Session I and II.

Due to the varying dates in Special Session, students are required to submit an EASy request with instructor  and department  approval to the Office of the Registrar by 4 p.m., Friday before the last week of instruction. For more Special Session dates, please see the Summer Session calendar.

An academic department

Registrar's Office , email registrar@ucsd.edu or (858) 534-3150

Graduate Division