How to Use UC SHIP

How to Use UC SHIP

Care Outside of Student Health

The UC Student Health Insurance Plan (UC SHIP) for Graduate, Professional and Undergraduate students is part of the UC system-wide health insurance program.

The plan provides comprehensive medical, pharmacy, dental and vision coverage for registered students and their dependents, and medical and dental coverage for undergraduate students and their dependents.

While coverage for registered students is automatic, the dependent plans are voluntary. The coverage is also available on a voluntary basis for students on an approved Leave of Absence or Filing Fee status (graduate students only).

Coverage for medical, hospital, and vision is provided through Anthem Blue Cross. Coverage for pharmacy is provided by OptumRx.

Coverage for medical, hospital, and vision is provided through Anthem Blue Cross.

Coverage for pharmacy is provided by OptumRx.

BEFORE YOU NEED IT:  Know Which Health Insurance You Have - and How to Use It! (PDF)

​Refer to the menu items on the left for information about your benefits.

For additional info and resources please visit UC SHIP Know Where To Go When You Need Care .

To MAXIMIZE your UC SHIP Benefits, please use these tips and tricks below…

For your medical health care

UC SHIP covers you under Anthem Blue Cross. UC San Diego Student Health & Well-Being is your medical home and where you should access your primary care needs. If you need a health check, if you’re ill or have been injured, if you need a vaccine, or if you need a referral for care outside of UCSD Student Health, please call us at 858-534-3300 to schedule an in-person or telemedicine visit. We DO NOT issue referral retroactively, if you go to a physician appointment or have diagnostic or hospital services without a prior referral, you will be held financially responsible.

You may access coverage and detailed benefit information by calling Anthem at 1-866-940-8306 or by visiting the UC SHIP website .

For your mental health care

UC SHIP offers mental and behavioral health coverage very generously. You may contact one of our primary care physicians at UCSD Student Health at 858-534-3300 to secure a referral to a mental health provider or you may contact our Counseling and Psychological Service (CAPS) providers at 858-534-3755 . You will need a referral prior to seeing a mental or behavioral health provider outside of UCSD Student Health and CAPS.

For Pharmacy benefits

UC SHIP offers unlimited prescription benefits. Please visit UCSD Student Health Pharmacy in the Student Health and Well-Being Clinic on campus to maximize your prescription benefits. You may access pharmacy benefits outside of Student Health, but you will pay higher out of pocket co-pays. If you need to have a prescription mailed to you, transfer a prescription, or have questions about over the counter items offered, please call our UCSD Student Health Pharmacy at 858-534-2135.

For Optometry benefits

UC SHIP covers one routine eye exam per benefit year (8/1 thru 7/31) and Anthem EyeMed will provide you with $120 to apply towards frames and lenses or contact lens once per benefit year. To maximize your benefits, please call UCSD Student Health Optometry at 858-534-2602 to schedule an appointment and to look at our wide variety of designer glasses and contact lens options. We also offer many brand name sunglasses. If you need to go outside of UCSD Student Health for an optometry visit, you can, and you don’t need a referral. Please call Anthem EyeMed at 1-866-940-8306 to locate a contracted provider.

UC SHIP Vision Summary (PDF)

For Dental Benefits

UC SHIP gives enrollees a supplemental curative dental plan provided by Delta Dental PPO. Delta Dental PPO will provide UC SHIP members with $1,000 USD worth of coverage for teeth evaluation and cleaning, fillings, xrays, root canals, and tooth extraction if you utilize their Delta Dental PPO providers. To find a dentist, please call Delta Dental PPO at 1-800-765-6003 or visit their website . Referrals are unnecessary for dental care.

UC SHIP Benefit Video Series

What's a Referral

Changes for 2026

How to Use UC SHIP Medical Plan Dental Plan Vision Plan Mental Health Transgender Care

Transgender Care

Medical Assistance Fund

Medical Care Outside the UCSD Area

UC SHIP Committee

UC SHIP for Non-registered Students and Dependents

Visitors From Other UC Campuses