Medication Abortion

Medication Abortion

Pregnancy Options Counseling

Students seeking pregnancy testing and consultation regarding pregnancy options are encouraged to schedule a visit through the nurse’s clinic using MyStudentChart or by calling (858) 534-3300. A referral for complete obstetrics care or abortion services can be provided at this visit.

Medication Abortion Services

Medication abortion services are available at Student Health Services for pregnancies up to 70 days (10 weeks) gestation. This procedure can be scheduled by calling Group 4 at (858) 534-2669.

For students with UC SHIP, there is no cost for medication abortion services at Student Health.

For students without UC SHIP, the fee for medication abortion services is $550.00. This fee includes the initial visit, ultrasound, medication, and 2-week follow-up visit.

Medication Abortion Steps

Step One: The Abortion Pill

During the initial appointment, a pelvic ultrasound will be done to accurately date the pregnancy. Detailed counseling on the medication abortion process will be completed and the first medication (Mifepristone) will be taken. Medications will be given to complete the abortion process (Misoprostol), as well as medications for pain and nausea. Both verbal and written information will be provided about the medication abortion process, next steps to be done at home, and required follow-up. The information will also include important SHS contact information. There will also be an opportunity to discuss contraceptive options.

Step Two: at Home

The second medication, Misoprostol, must be taken 24-72 hours after the initial medication (Mifepristone) was taken. The second medication causes the uterus to empty. The timing of this step will be determined during the initial visit.

This medication will cause cramping and heavy bleeding which usually lasts a few hours. Some patients may begin bleeding before taking the second medication. There may be large clots or tissue at the time of the abortion.

More than half of patients pass the pregnancy within 4-5 hours after taking the second medication. For others it takes longer but most are usually passed within a few days. It’s normal to experience bleeding or spotting for up to 4 weeks after the abortion. It’s recommended to use sanitary pads to more easily keep track of the bleeding.

Step Three: Follow-up

Patients must follow-up to ensure they are doing well and to make sure the abortion is complete. Follow-up should be done 2 weeks from the initial appointment and may include getting an ultrasound and/or a series of blood tests to check hormone levels.

How Does Medication Abortion Feel?

For most, medication is like an early miscarriage. It’s normal to have bleeding and cramping. Additional symptoms include feeling dizzy, having strong cramps, feeling nauseated or vomiting, having diarrhea, feeling temporary abdominal pain, and having temporary mild fever or chills.

Medication Abortion Visit Expectations

Plan to be at the Student Health clinic for about 2 hours. The visit is completed in three parts:

Laboratory appointment for blood sample collection (scheduled with the lab by the Group 4 staff when the initial medication abortion appointment is scheduled).

Completion of the ultrasound and detailed discussion with provider.

Review of information, administration of medication(s), and expectations for follow-up (scheduled before leaving).

A federal or state identification card (i.e., driver’s license, passport, or student ID card with photo) must be brought to this appointment. This is required for medication pickup at the SHS pharmacy.

There is a $20 fee for missed appointments or late cancellations (less than 4 hours before appointment time).

Resources & Support

For some, it can be difficult to choose whether to have an abortion or to consider their options after becoming pregnant. Additionally, for people to have made the decision to end a pregnancy, there may be a wide range of emotional reactions that arise at different points during or after their medical care.

UCSD Counseling and Psychological Services (CAPS) is available to support students’ emotional and mental health and can assist students in speaking to a professional clinician about their experiences.

Additional Resources

Phone: 1 (888) 493-0092

Hours: Monday through Friday 7am–10pm, Saturday and Sunday 7am–3pm

Services: Provides confidential and judgment-free support to callers at any point before, during, or after an experience with pregnancy, parenting, abortion, or adoption.

Languages spoken by counselors: English, Spanish

Connect & Breathe

Phone: 1 (866) 647-1764

Hours: Monday 4–7pm, Tuesday 3–6pm, Thursday 3–6pm, Saturday 9am–12pm

Services: Provides a talk-line staffed by people trained to listen and help callers find peace. They can help by just listening or by providing local resources to help callers connect with their decision in an affirming way.

Exhale Pro-voice

Phone: 1 (617) 749-2948

Hours: Monday through Friday 3–9pm, Saturday 1–9pm, Sunday 3–7pm

Services: Exhale offers a free text line that provides emotional support, resources, and information. All messages are completely confidential and counselors offer support and respect without judgment.

Languages spoken by counselors: English, Spanish, Cantonese, Mandarin, Vietnamese

Phone: 1 (888) 717-5010

Hours: Monday, Wednesday, and Friday 8am–3pm, Saturday and Sunday 9am–12pm

Services: Faith Aloud offers free counseling by phone. Counselors are clergy and specially trained religious counselors (Roman Catholic, Jewish, Muslim, Unitarian-Universalist, Protestant Christian, and Buddhist) and want to offer an opportunity for candid dialogue about the abortion experience and provide support to move forward with strength and confidence. Persons of no particular religious faith are welcome to call.

Languages spoken by counselors: English, Spanish (varies by counselor)

Advance Directives

Alcohol and Other Drugs

Breast & Testicular Health

Conjunctivitis (Pink Eye)

Eating Disorders

Emergency Contraception

Gastroesophageal Reflux Disease (GERD)

Gynecologic Cancers (PDF)

Hepatitis A, B and C

Human Papillomavirus (HPV)

Medication Abortion

Methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA)

Molluscum Contagiosum

Painful Periods (Dysmenorrhea)

Pelvic Inflammatory Disease (PID)

Physical Activity

Plant Dermatitis

Polycystic Ovary Syndrome (PCOS)

Pregnancy Testing

Temporomandibular Joint Disorders (TMJ)

Urinary Tract Infections (UTIs)

Vaginal Infections