Testing for STI and HIV

Testing for Sexually Transmitted Infections (STIs) and HIV

STIs and HIV (Human Immunodeficiency Virus) are infections that can be spread through sexual contact. Regular testing is recommended to help prevent serious complications and prevent the spread of infection to others.

A health care provider can help determine how often testing is indicated. Based on risk factors and sexual behaviors, testing may be recommended annually, when switching sexual partners, or whenever symptoms are present.

Methods for testing include blood, urine, and swabs (throat, rectum, and/or genitals). It is important that patients let their health care provider know what sexual behaviors they are engaging in to determine the most effective tests for their specific needs.

More About HIV Testing

SHS offers confidential HIV testing services. Confidential testing means the patient’s name will be printed on the test request and test results, and the results will be included as part of the patient’s confidential medical record. HIV results cannot be released to others without a specific written authorization.

HIV testing can also be completely anonymous. Anonymous testing means a random identification number is used to request the test and is printed on the test result. The patient’s name is not used in the testing process and the test result is not included as part of the medical record. Anonymous testing is not offered at SHS but is available at clinics in the community .

STI & HIV Testing at Student Health Services (SHS)

STI and HIV testing services are available at SHS for all registered UC San Diego students. Testing is fully covered for students with UC SHIP or RAFT. See Cost of Services for more information.

Testing Option #1: Self-directed testing is available to schedule directly with the SHS lab . An appointment with the lab is required and can be self-scheduled using MyStudentChart . Self-directed testing is available for:

Urine Chlamydia and Gonorrhea

Testing Option #2: Patients may also schedule an appointment with their primary care or reproductive health provider to be screened and tested for STIs and HIV. Same-day care is available.

Testing is recommended for people who:

have symptoms of an STI.

have known or suspected exposure to an STI or HIV.

consider themselves at risk.

are sharing needles for any reason.

are of childbearing age and are considering pregnancy.

are transfusion recipients before 1985.

have hemophilia.

have intercourse (oral, vaginal, anal) without using condoms for protection.

are sexual partners of any of the above.

Patients who may have had oral or anal exposure should make an appointment to see an SHS provider to discuss testing options.

*SHS offers a 4th generation HIV test, which tests for both HIV antibodies and the p24 antigen. The presence of HIV antibodies in the blood means a person has been infected with HIV. Testing for the p24 antigen can detect some cases of HIV infection even before antibodies are produced.

STI & HIV Testing in the Community

San Diego County Health Services locations (free/anonymous/walk in testing)

Community health centers*

Beach Area Center: (619) 515-2444, 3705 Mission Blvd., San Diego

Mira Mesa Center: (858) 578-4220, 10737 Camino Ruiz #235, San Diego

Linda Vista Center: (858) 279-0925, 6973 Linda Vista Rd, San Diego

Vista Center: (760) 631-5000, 1000 Vale Terrace, Vista

Planned Parenthood : (800) 230-7526

*Check websites for most current contact information and hours.

HIV Early Test Program

The UC San Diego Antiviral Research Center (AVRC) in Hillcrest provides an early HIV test that looks for the virus instead of antibodies. Persons considering having the early test must wait seven days since their last exposure before testing. Results for the early test are available after two weeks.

Testing for STI and HIV