Programs and Events

International Scholar Orientation

International Scholar Orientation

The International Services and Engagement Office (ISEO) is excited to welcome you to UC San Diego! Orientation helps scholars understand immigration requirements, campus resources, and important steps to maintain valid status while in the United States. ISEO provides orientation through self-paced online modules and informational resources designed to help scholars successfully begin their program and navigate life at UC San Diego. Orientation is delivered through a third-party platform called Homebase .

You must access the orientation through the link in iServices to ensure that your completion is properly recorded and reported to ISEO.

J-1 Scholar Orientation (Mandatory)

The U.S. Department of State requires all J-1 Exchange Visitors beginning a new program or transferring their program to UC San Diego to receive orientation from their program sponsor. J-1 scholars must complete this orientation before registering with ISEO .

How to Complete J-1 Orientation:

Step 1: Wait for your DS-2019 Wait for your DS-2019 to be issued by ISEO. Once ISEO issues your DS-2019, you will receive instructions to complete orientation.

Wait for your DS-2019 to be issued by ISEO. Once ISEO issues your DS-2019, you will receive instructions to complete orientation.

Step 2: Enroll through iServices (required first step) Log in to iServices and click on “ J-1 Scholar Services ” and open the eform titled “Mandatory J-1 Scholar Orientation.” This step is required to enroll yourself in the orientation course.

Log in to iServices and click on “ J-1 Scholar Services ” and open the eform titled “Mandatory J-1 Scholar Orientation.”

This step is required to enroll yourself in the orientation course.

Step 3: Access the Homebase course After submitting the Orientation eform in iServices, you will be automatically enrolled and routed to the J-1 Orientation course in Homebase. You will be automatically prompted to create your Homebase login credentials.

After submitting the Orientation eform in iServices, you will be automatically enrolled and routed to the J-1 Orientation course in Homebase.

You will be automatically prompted to create your Homebase login credentials.

Step 4: Complete the course The orientation is self-paced and can be completed in multiple sessions. After your initial enrollment through iServices, you do not need to submit the eform again to access the orientation. You may access the course at any time by: Logging in directly through the Homebase website with the login credentials you created, or Using the orientation course access link sent to your email by Homebase

The orientation is self-paced and can be completed in multiple sessions.

After your initial enrollment through iServices, you do not need to submit the eform again to access the orientation.

You may access the course at any time by: Logging in directly through the Homebase website with the login credentials you created, or Using the orientation course access link sent to your email by Homebase

Logging in directly through the Homebase website with the login credentials you created, or

Using the orientation course access link sent to your email by Homebase

Step 5: Receive your certificate Once the course is completed, you will receive a certificate of completion , and ISEO will automatically be notified.

Once the course is completed, you will receive a certificate of completion , and ISEO will automatically be notified.

H-1B Scholar Orientation

H-1B scholars are expected to comply with U.S. Department of Labor (DOL) and U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) regulations in order to maintain valid H-1B status. ISEO provides orientation to help scholars understand these requirements and access resources that support maintaining status while working at UC San Diego.

Step 1: Wait for your H-1B to be sent to USCIS Once ISEO submits your H-1B petition to USCIS, you will receive instructions to begin the orientation process, including a direct link to the iServices eform titled “H-1B Scholar Orientation.” After your H-1B is approved, you will receive a follow-up email with important information about maintaining H-1B status, employment requirements, reporting responsibilities, and a reminder to complete the orientation.

Once ISEO submits your H-1B petition to USCIS, you will receive instructions to begin the orientation process, including a direct link to the iServices eform titled “H-1B Scholar Orientation.”

After your H-1B is approved, you will receive a follow-up email with important information about maintaining H-1B status, employment requirements, reporting responsibilities, and a reminder to complete the orientation.

Step 2: Enroll through iServices (required first step) Log in to iServices and complete complete the H-1B Scholar Orientation eform . This step is required to enroll yourself in the orientation course.

Log in to iServices and complete complete the H-1B Scholar Orientation eform .

This step is required to enroll yourself in the orientation course.

Step 3: Access the Homebase course After submitting the eform in iServices, you will be automatically be enrolled and routed to the H-1B orientation in Homebase. You will be prompted to create your Homebase login credentials. If you do not already have Homebase login credentials proceed to create new credentials.

After submitting the eform in iServices, you will be automatically be enrolled and routed to the H-1B orientation in Homebase.

You will be prompted to create your Homebase login credentials. If you do not already have Homebase login credentials proceed to create new credentials.

Step 4: Complete the course The orientation is self-paced and may be completed in multiple sessions. After your initial enrollment through iServices, you do not need to submit the eform again to access the orientation. You may access the course at any time by: Logging in directly through the Homebase website with the login credentials you created, or Using the orientation course access link sent to your email by Homebase

The orientation is self-paced and may be completed in multiple sessions.

After your initial enrollment through iServices, you do not need to submit the eform again to access the orientation.

You may access the course at any time by: Logging in directly through the Homebase website with the login credentials you created, or Using the orientation course access link sent to your email by Homebase

Logging in directly through the Homebase website with the login credentials you created, or

Using the orientation course access link sent to your email by Homebase

Step 5: Receive your certificate Once the course is completed, you will receive a certificate of completion , and ISEO will automatically be notified.

Once the course is completed, you will receive a certificate of completion , and ISEO will automatically be notified.

Important Notice: Homebase

Homebase (ISEO’s self-paced online orientation platform) offers additional workshops and resources that provide helpful supplemental information about immigration topics and life in the United States. These materials are intended as general educational resources. Because immigration regulations and institutional policies may vary by sponsor, scholars should always consult with an ISEO Scholar Advisor to confirm they are following UC San Diego policies, procedures, and sponsorship requirements. Information provided through Homebase should not replace guidance from ISEO.

International Student Orientation

International Scholar Orientation