Review the sections below and download instructions on submitting necessary forms. All forms can be submitted through the Document Submission Tool in the Financial Aid and Scholarships (FAS) student portal .

This mobile-friendly tool allows you to complete your documents with an e-signature and opt in for text reminders. Follow the instructions in this step-by-step PDF to create an account and begin using the Document Submission Tool.

2025-26 Fall, Winter, Spring Documents due May 15, 2026.

Verification Documents

The verification process is intended to improve the accuracy of the information submitted on the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) and the California Dream Act Application, as required by the state and federal government. The university may not disburse student aid until the verification process is complete.

2026-27 Verification Document Deadlines

May 1: Priority deadline for continuing students.

June 15: Priority deadline for new incoming first-year and transfer students.

Note: Any tasks assigned after the respective deadlines listed above are due within two weeks of being notified. Submitting documents after the priority deadline may result in limited funding.

Verification Process

Documentation: If selected for verification, additional documents will be required. This will include the online UC San Diego Household Verification Form and federal tax returns. For specifics, please log into your Financial Aid and Scholarships (FAS) student portal . If additional information is required, you will receive an email to your UC San Diego email address asking you to log in to the Document Submission Tool for more information.

If additional information is required, you will receive an email to your UC San Diego email address asking you to log in to the Document Submission Tool for more information.

Results: After verification is complete, a financial aid offer will be created. You will receive an email to your UC San Diego email address. You will then be able to view the offer on Financial Aid and Scholarships (FAS) student portal .

Corrections after verification? Please contact the UC San Diego Financial Aid and Scholarships Office . 26-27 Verification Instructions (PDF) 25-26 Verification Instructions (PDF)

Special Circumstances

Cost of Attendance (COA) Appeal

We understand additional expenses can come up unexpectedly during the academic year. If you are faced with certain costs that amount to more than the expected expenses outlined in UC San Diego's estimated cost of attendance , the Financial Aid and Scholarships Office may be able to add them to your budget to help you cover them with student loans (subject to funding availability). We can also inform you of other types of occasional funding for which you may be eligible, such as work-study or graduate departmental funds (available to graduate students only).

For more information, review the appeal instructions linked below or check out example allowable costs and documentation to help you understand if a COA Appeal is right for you.

2026-2027 COA Appeals Available Late Summer

Student Aid Index Appeal

When your family experiences changes to their financial situation and/or special circumstances that are not reflected on your initial aid application occur unexpectedly, Financial Aid and Scholarships (FAS) provides the opportunity to submit an SAI Appeal.

Based on the time of year the appeal is submitted, FAS will prioritize initial financial aid verification and packaging. If selected for verification, your appeal will not be reviewed until verification has been completed.

If you have read the above and wish to submit an SAI Appeal, please see the Instructions below.

2026-2027 SAI Appeals Available Late Summer

Unusual Circumstance

The Unusual Circumstance appeal is for applicants who would like to request a review of their dependency status for financial aid consideration. Please read the following information before submitting this type of appeal.

Federal regulations state that a student is considered independent for financial aid purposes if they can answer “yes” to any one of the dependency questions on the FAFSA or California Dream Act Application. Dependency criteria is the same for both applications.

If you do not meet any of the criteria and feel your circumstances warrant review for independent status, submit the Unusual Circumstance Appeal form and your supporting documents to Financial Aid and Scholarships (FAS) for review. Please note: A student is not considered independent solely based on:

Self-sufficiency

A parent's unwillingness to provide information

A parent's unwillingness to assist with educational expenses

A parent not claiming the student as a dependent for income tax purposes

You may also submit this appeal if you are:

Older than 21, but not yet 24 AND

Are unaccompanied AND

Either homeless OR self-supporting and at risk of being homeless

If you have read the above requirements and wish to submit an Unusual Circumstance Appeal, please see the Instructions below.

Students with Dependents

Students who have one or more children or legal dependents under the age of 18 who live with them and to whom they provide more than 50% of their financial support between July 1, 2025, and June 30, 2026, may be eligible for an increased Cost of Attendance (COA) which may allow for additional financial aid.

Access the instructions below to provide the documentation required to be considered for an additional increase to your financial aid.

Students with dependent(s) are encouraged to visit Resources for Students with Dependents for additional resources and information.

2026-2027 Student with Dependent(s) Available: July 2026

To access loan forms, visit the FAS student portal in Financial Aid and Scholarships (FAS) student portal and go to the “Manage Awards” to see if you are offered federal and/or institutional student specific loans. If offered a loan, use the selection column to accept/decline federal and institutional student specific loans.

Student Consent Release Form

Financial Aid & Scholarships

Cost of Attendance