Loans are a form of financial aid that you can borrow and must be repaid with interest. We strongly advise students to only borrow what they need and to pursue outside agency scholarships before committing to a loan.

There are three types of loans for which students may be eligible:

Federal and university need-based loans

Federal non-need-based loans

Alternative loans

Facts About Loans

Taking on a loan is a serious responsibility and can affect your future credit rating. Make sure you understand the obligations to repay your loans and any accrued interest. Stay in close touch with the holder of your loan.Details about your loans and loan servicers are available through the Federal Student Aid website . Be sure to always make your loan payments on time. You can estimate your monthly payments under the standard repayment plan using this debt management tool . Carefully determine how much educational debt you can reasonably afford to pay back each month.

Make sure you understand the obligations to repay your loans and any accrued interest.

Stay in close touch with the holder of your loan.Details about your loans and loan servicers are available through the Federal Student Aid website .

Be sure to always make your loan payments on time. You can estimate your monthly payments under the standard repayment plan using this debt management tool . Carefully determine how much educational debt you can reasonably afford to pay back each month.

Review important loan consolidation information for graduating borrowers .

You’re required to sign promissory notes and attend loan counseling sessions before you can receive disbursements of your loans.

Make sure you're eligible to receive loans: Review the eligibility requirements for undergraduates , graduate and professional school students .

Select a specific loan type below to learn more and find out if you are eligible.

Federal Direct Loans Federal student loans include Direct Subsidized and Unsubsidized Loans, as well as PLUS loans for eligible graduate/professional school students or parents of undergraduates.

Federal student loans include Direct Subsidized and Unsubsidized Loans, as well as PLUS loans for eligible graduate/professional school students or parents of undergraduates.

California Dream Loans A state-subsidized student loan available for eligible undocumented AB 540 undergraduates.

A state-subsidized student loan available for eligible undocumented AB 540 undergraduates.

University Undergraduate Loans Offered and administered by UC San Diego, university loans provide another loan option for undergraduates.

Offered and administered by UC San Diego, university loans provide another loan option for undergraduates.

Short-Term Emergency Loans Limited emergency loan funds are offered in small amounts to help students experiencing critical short-term emergencies.

Limited emergency loan funds are offered in small amounts to help students experiencing critical short-term emergencies.

Private Education Loan Programs Education loans are also available from private lenders, such as banks and credit unions, but often come with higher interest rates and additional eligibility and repayment requirements.

Education loans are also available from private lenders, such as banks and credit unions, but often come with higher interest rates and additional eligibility and repayment requirements.

Receiving Your Loan

Completion of entrance loan counseling is required for most loans before funds will be disbursed  to your student account. Follow a few simple steps to ensure your loans can be received.

Repaying Your Loan

It’s important to understand your responsibilities as a borrower and the exit loan counseling process.

UC Private Lender Lists

See the University of California's lists of private lenders, find out how the UC developed the lists, and learn your rights in choosing a lender.

About Lender Lists

Financial Aid and Withdrawing from UC San Diego

Find out what financial aid or student loan recipients need to know about withdrawal at UC San Diego.

To Apply for Loans

File your 2025-26 Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) by the March 3, 2025 to be considered for all federal and university loans. You may still apply after March 3 for federal and private loans.

File your 2025-26 Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) by the March 3, 2025 to be considered for all federal and university loans. You may still apply after March 3 for federal and private loans.

Federal student loans are available to most students regardless of income and provide a range of repayment options including income-based repayment plans and loan forgiveness benefits, which other education loans are not required to provide.

Federal student loans are available to most students regardless of income and provide a range of repayment options including income-based repayment plans and loan forgiveness benefits, which other education loans are not required to provide.

Follow any additional instructions for specific loan types: Federal loan programs for undergraduates and parents Federal loan programs for graduate/professional school students University loans for undergraduates Private loans

Follow any additional instructions for specific loan types:

Federal loan programs for undergraduates and parents

Federal loan programs for graduate/professional school students

University loans for undergraduates

Loans Repaying Your Loan Private Education Loan Programs Federal Direct Loans California Dream Loans University Undergraduate Loans Short-Term Emergency Loans Receiving Your Loan

Repaying Your Loan

Private Education Loan Programs

Federal Direct Loans

California Dream Loans

University Undergraduate Loans

Short-Term Emergency Loans

Receiving Your Loan

Study Abroad & Exchange Programs

Military Affiliated Students

Other Funding Sources