Student Services

Working in the U.S.

F-1 Optional Practical Training (OPT)

F-1 STEM OPT Extension

(This page has a friendly link that's easy to remember: stemopt.ucsd.edu )

The STEM OPT Extension is a work authorization that extends the 12-month post-completion Initial OPT for additional 24 months. F-1 students who earned a bachelor’s, master’s, or doctoral degree in certain science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM) fields may be eligible to apply.

Stage 1: Request STEM OPT I-20 from ISEO

Step 1: Confirm your STEM OPT Extension Eligibility

You must be currently in valid F-1 status AND on post-completion Initial OPT. You can apply for the STEM OPT Extension during the last 90 days of your post-completion OPT . USCIS must receive your application no later than the end date that is printed on your OPT EAD card and no earlier than 90 days before that date.

You can apply for the STEM OPT Extension during the last 90 days of your post-completion OPT . USCIS must receive your application no later than the end date that is printed on your OPT EAD card and no earlier than 90 days before that date.

You must have earned a degree in a qualifying STEM field. On the first page of your I-20 (towards the middle), your major is listed. Next to the major is a series of numbers, called the CIP code. The major or program listed in TritonLink may differ from the one shown on your Form I-20. The major on your Form I-20 is based on a CIP (Classification of Instructional Programs) code—a standardized system created by the U.S. government that all universities use to align their majors. Each CIP code corresponds to a specific UC San Diego major or program. You can r eview the list of UCSD majors and their equivalent CIP codes here . If your CIP code is listed on the STEM Designated Degree Program List , then your major is eligible for the STEM OPT Extension. A double major with at least one STEM eligible major would be eligible for the STEM OPT extension. STEM minors are not eligible for the STEM OPT extension.

On the first page of your I-20 (towards the middle), your major is listed. Next to the major is a series of numbers, called the CIP code.

The major or program listed in TritonLink may differ from the one shown on your Form I-20. The major on your Form I-20 is based on a CIP (Classification of Instructional Programs) code—a standardized system created by the U.S. government that all universities use to align their majors. Each CIP code corresponds to a specific UC San Diego major or program. You can r eview the list of UCSD majors and their equivalent CIP codes here .

If your CIP code is listed on the STEM Designated Degree Program List , then your major is eligible for the STEM OPT Extension.

A double major with at least one STEM eligible major would be eligible for the STEM OPT extension. STEM minors are not eligible for the STEM OPT extension.

You must have a job or job offer that meets the following requirements: The job is paid. The job is a minimum of 20 hours per week. There must be an employer (you cannot be self-employed). The employer must be registered in the E-Verify Program ( https://ww.we-verify.gov/ ) The employer must review and comply with the employer requirements and responsibilities on the USCIS website and on DHS’s STEM OPT HUB .

The job is paid.

The job is a minimum of 20 hours per week.

There must be an employer (you cannot be self-employed).

The employer must be registered in the E-Verify Program ( https://ww.we-verify.gov/ )

The employer must review and comply with the employer requirements and responsibilities on the USCIS website and on DHS’s STEM OPT HUB .

When can I apply for the STEM Extension?

I am applying for Permanent Residency. How will OPT impact me?

Step 2: Complete the I-983 Training Plan with Your Employer

What is the I-983 Training Plan?

DHS requires that the STEM OPT student and employer work together to complete the Form I-983. During STEM OPT, students must report any changes to their employment by updating the I-983 and submitting it to ISEO.

There are three main sections of the I-983:

The Training Plan, which is the first 4 pages.

The “Evaluation on Student Progress”, located on the top half of the last page (page 5).

The “Final Evaluation”, located on the bottom half of the last page (page 5).

The Training Plan (the first four pages of the I-983) must be completed before applying for the STEM OPT. You must upload your I-983 training plan to your STEM OPT I-20 request in iServices .

Students must fill out the self-evaluation and final evaluation sections (page 5) of the I-983 after their STEM OPT Extension is approved. For details, see Stage 4: Maintaining F-1 Status on STEM OPT

Step 3: Pay the STEM OPT Administrative Processing Fee

What is the STEM OPT Administrative Processing Fee?

The STEM OPT Administrative Processing Fee is a one-time payment required for ISEO to comply with mandatory federal regulations and maintain U.S. Department of Homeland Security systems for F-1 SEVIS records while students are no longer enrolled at UC San Diego.

The fee is $475.00

An additional $13.06 credit card processing fee may apply.

Fees subject to change without prior notification.

The fee is a non-refundable except in cases where ISEO is unable to recommend the STEM OPT Extension due to student ineligibility.

Any refunds will be minus credit card service fees.

This fee is separate from the I-765 application fee to USCIS (see Stage 2).

If you do not have a Postdoctoral Scholar offer at UC San Diego for your STEM OPT Extension period:

If you have accepted a Postdoctoral Scholar position at UC San Diego for your STEM OPT Extension period:

Step 4: STEM OPT I-20 Request

Submit a STEM OPT I-20 Request in iServices :

Find the Working in the U.S. (F-1) category in the left menu. Select STEM OPT Requests . Choose the STEM OPT I-20 Request option.

Select STEM OPT Requests .

Choose the STEM OPT I-20 Request option.

Prepare a PDF copy of: Your Initial OPT EAD card. Pages 1-4 of your I-983 Training Plan. Your ISEO STEM OPT Administrative Processing Fee receipt.

Your Initial OPT EAD card.

Pages 1-4 of your I-983 Training Plan.

Your ISEO STEM OPT Administrative Processing Fee receipt.

Submit all of the required eForms. You will receive a confirmation email when your request has been successfully submitted.

ISEO has an average processing time of 10 business days. You will be notified via email when your request is complete.

Receive your STEM OPT I-20

Review your STEM OPT I-20 Note the STEM OPT recommendation on page 2 of the I-20. Review the requested dates of the STEM OPT period. Check that your major is correct and STEM eligible. On the first page of your I-20, towards the middle, your major is listed. Next to the major is a series of numbers, called the CIP code. If your CIP code is listed on the STEM Designated Degree Program List, then your major is eligible for the STEM OPT Extension.

Note the STEM OPT recommendation on page 2 of the I-20. Review the requested dates of the STEM OPT period.

Check that your major is correct and STEM eligible. On the first page of your I-20, towards the middle, your major is listed. Next to the major is a series of numbers, called the CIP code. If your CIP code is listed on the STEM Designated Degree Program List, then your major is eligible for the STEM OPT Extension.

Upload your signed STEM OPT I-20 to your STEM OPT application to USCIS (Form I-765) USCIS must receive your complete STEM OPT Application Form I-765) before the expiration date on your Initial OPT EAD card , otherwise your STEM OPT Application will be immediately rejected by USCIS. USCIS must receive your STEM OPT Extension application no later than 60 days after we issue your STEM OPT I-20

USCIS must receive your complete STEM OPT Application Form I-765) before the expiration date on your Initial OPT EAD card , otherwise your STEM OPT Application will be immediately rejected by USCIS.

USCIS must receive your STEM OPT Extension application no later than 60 days after we issue your STEM OPT I-20

Changing Employers Before Submitting the I-765:

If you are changing employers after you received your STEM OPT I-20 but before your STEM OPT Extension application is pending with USCIS, submit an Updated STEM OPT I-20 Request in iServices :

Find the Working in the U.S. (F-1) category in the left menu. Select STEM OPT Requests . Choose the Updated STEM OPT I-20 Request option.

Select STEM OPT Requests .

Choose the Updated STEM OPT I-20 Request option.

Choose the"Received STEM OPT I-20 but did not submit OPT Application to USCIS" status option.

Upload a PDF copy of: Your current Initial OPT EAD card Your Form I-983 Training Plan (only pages 1-4 ) for your new employer If you will end this employment after your current Initial OPT EAD card end date: I-983 Final Evaluation (pages 1-5 of Form I-983 ) from your previous employer

Your current Initial OPT EAD card

Your Form I-983 Training Plan (only pages 1-4 ) for your new employer

If you will end this employment after your current Initial OPT EAD card end date: I-983 Final Evaluation (pages 1-5 of Form I-983 ) from your previous employer

I-983 Final Evaluation (pages 1-5 of Form I-983 ) from your previous employer

When you receive your updated STEM OPT Extension I-20, sign and date it, and submit its copy to USCIS with the rest of your STEM OPT Extension application documents. If you have already submitted your STEM OPT Extension application to USCIS and it is now pending, do not submit another duplicate application. Follow the instructions in Stage 3.

Stage 2: Submit STEM OPT Application (I-765) to USCIS

Submit your STEM OPT Application to USCIS

Use ISEO's Guide for the Online STEM OPT Application (I-765):

Important Reminders:

USCIS must receive your STEM OPT Extension application no later than 60 days after we issue your STEM OPT I-20 USCIS must receive your STEM OPT Extension application before your current OPT EAD card end date . You must be physically present in the U.S. at the time of application to USCIS . If filing online close to any deadlines, note that USCIS operates on Universal Coordinated Time (UTC) which is different than Pacific Standard Time (PST). Ensure all applications are complete and submitted before 11:59 PM UTC of the current day in order for it to be considered as submitted on that day. If you are not sure how to determine the correct due date based on your time zone, please use a Universal Coordinated Time converter. For USCIS form details, including filing tips, direct filing address (paper forms), and instructions, visit the USCIS website .

USCIS must receive your STEM OPT Extension application no later than 60 days after we issue your STEM OPT I-20

USCIS must receive your STEM OPT Extension application before your current OPT EAD card end date .

You must be physically present in the U.S. at the time of application to USCIS .

If filing online close to any deadlines, note that USCIS operates on Universal Coordinated Time (UTC) which is different than Pacific Standard Time (PST). Ensure all applications are complete and submitted before 11:59 PM UTC of the current day in order for it to be considered as submitted on that day. If you are not sure how to determine the correct due date based on your time zone, please use a Universal Coordinated Time converter.

For USCIS form details, including filing tips, direct filing address (paper forms), and instructions, visit the USCIS website .

I-797C Receipt Notice:

USCIS will send a receipt (Form I-797C) within 30 business days confirming they received your application. If you do not receive this notice within 30 business days, contact USCIS Customer Service to confirm your mailing address.

Your receipt will have a case number (beginning with three letters followed by 10 numbers). Keep the original receipt for your records. This is the only way you can track your application at the USCIS Service Centers.

How can I track the status of my pending OPT application?

Processing Times and Premium Processing Option

USCIS Processing Times:

On average, student's applications are adjudicated within 90-120 days . You can check current general processing times for the Form I-765 on the USCIS Case Processing Times website . You can also use your Receipt Number (found on your I-797C Receipt Notice) to track the status of your specific USCIS application on the USCIS Case Status website .

[SHIFTING USCIS PROCESSING TIMELINES] Despite efforts to provide accurate estimates, it's not uncommon for USCIS timelines to shift. USCIS recalibrates its processing time estimates to reflect current realities and caseloads periodically. Therefore, posted timelines showing time to review (including timelines shown in the USCIS Online Account) are best understood as estimates rather than guarantees. Despite published processing times, note that you may receive a decision sooner or later via a formal notice of action (Form I-797) from USCIS. Students who are eager to receive a start date within 30 business days are encouraged to explore Premium Processing options.

Premium Processing Option:

USCIS offers premium processing for F-1 students seeking optional practical training (OPT) and STEM OPT extensions. Premium processing provides expedited processing services within 30 business days. Premium processing is submitted through Online Filing of USCIS Form I-907 and is available to F-1 students in categories (c)(3)(B), and (c)(3)(C).  Form I-907 can be filed as a part of the I-765 submission, or filed separately after the I-765 has already been submitted. This is a non-refundable fee. Review USCIS premium processing fee and FAQ's for more information.

Can I stay in the U.S. after my grace period ends while my STEM OPT application is pending?

Stage 3: Wait for USCIS Approval

Biometrics & Photographs

Biometric Services Appointment (If Required)

USCIS may require that you appear for an interview or provide biometrics (fingerprints, photograph , and/or signature) at any time to verify your identity, obtain additional information , and conduct background and security checks, including a check of criminal history records maintained by the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), before making a decision on your application or petition. After USCIS receives your application and ensures it is complete, USCIS will inform you in writing (via USPS mail) or in your online account (if you filed online) if you need to attend a biometric services appointment.

If an appointment is necessary, the notice will provide you with the location of your local or designated USCIS Application Support Center (ASC) and the date and time of your appointment. If you are required to provide biometrics, you must sign an oath at your appointment reaffirming that:

You provided or authorized all information in the application;

You reviewed and understood all the information contained in, and submitted with, your application; and

The information was complete, true , and correct at the time of filing.

If you fail to attend your biometric services appointment, USCIS may deny your application.

We recommend that you review your copy of your completed application before you go to your biometric services appointment at a USCIS ASC . At your appointment, USCIS will permit you to complete the application process only if you are able to confirm, under penalty of perjury, that all the information in your application is complete, true and correct.

Working and Travelling

Working while your STEM OPT application is pending with USCIS:

If your STEM OPT Extension application was received by USCIS before the end date on your initial 12-month OPT EAD card: Your work authorization and F-1 status is automatically extended for up to 180 days while the STEM OPT Extension application is pending. The 180 days count starts from the end date of your initial 12-month OPT.

Your work authorization and F-1 status is automatically extended for up to 180 days while the STEM OPT Extension application is pending.

The 180 days count starts from the end date of your initial 12-month OPT.

Your I-797C Receipt Notice serves as documentation of your pending STEM OPT Extension application. 8 CFR 214.2(f)(11)(I)(C) and 8 CFR 247a.12(c)(6)(iv).

Travelling while your STEM OPT application is pending with USCIS:

As noted by the Department of Homeland Security (DHS): "Students on STEM OPT extensions (including those whose application for a STEM OPT extension is pending) may travel abroad and seek reentry to the United States in F-1 status during the STEM OPT extension period if they have a valid F-1 visa that permits multiple entries and a current Form I-20 Certificate of Eligibility endorsed for reentry by the DSO within the last six months. The student's status is determined by CBP upon admission to the United States or through a USCIS adjudication of a change-of-status petition" (preamble to the 24-month rule [ 81 FR 13103 par. 774 ]).

Required documents for seeking re-entry to the U.S. while on Pending STEM OPT:

Current passport : Valid for at least 6 months after your re-entry date.

Current F-1 visa: You may seek re-entry to the U.S. until the end date of your visa stamp.

Current I-20 – Must have a valid travel signature on page 2 of most recently issued I-20 with STEM OPT recommendation. Travel signatures are valid for 6 months while on STEM OPT.

Original Initial OPT EAD card

Copy of I-797C Receipt Notice of pending STEM OPT

Job offer letter from your current employer (recommended)

Request for Further Evidence (RFEs) and Denials

Request for Further Evidence (RFE):

In some cases, USCIS may request additional documentation from you by sending a Request for Further Evidence (RFE). You will also receive an RFE if your application is not complete.

If you receive an RFE, please read the letter thoroughly and connect with an ISEO Advisor.

USCIS will explain why you are receiving the RFE and what documentation you need to provide. It is important that you reply to the RFE immediately to ensure that your STEM OPT Application is still adjudicated.

Receiving an RFE will delay the processing time.

Denials or Rejections:

If your application has been denied or rejected by USCIS, please connect with an ISEO Advisor . Email iemployment@ucsd.edu as soon as possible and attach a copy of your rejection letter or denial notice. As always, please also include your PID number in your email.

Withdrawing your OPT Application or Starting a New Program

Withdrawing/Cancelling your pending OPT Application:

Delays in Completing Academic Program at UC San Diego: To authorize post-completion Optional Practical Training, your I-20 was shortened to reflect your new program end date. If you cannot complete your program on time, you must meet with an ISEO advisor immediately.

Cancelling OPT Application: Students may cancel their application as long as it has not been approved by USCIS. Contact USCIS directly and provide your case number (on your Receipt Notice). All cancellations must be in writing and mailed to USCIS. If you need to cancel your application, please contact ISEO immediately so we can assist you with this process. Once an EAD card is issued, the OPT cannot be cancelled, so please plan accordingly.

Starting a new program at a new institution:

Withdraw your OPT application: If your OPT Application is still pending, it is advised that you withdraw/cancel your application with USCIS. Keep documentation of your withdrawal to show that your intentions changed during the pending decision period of your OPT Application.

Transfer your SEVIS record: Submit a SEVIS Transfer Out Request in iServices . You must begin instruction at your new institution within 5 months of your SEVIS Release Date.

Starting a new program at UC San Diego:

Submit a Change of Level Request: If you want to start a new academic program at UC San Diego while your OPT Application is pending with USCIS, submit a Change of Program Level I-20 Request in iServices . Talk to an ISEO Advisor to learn the timeline.

Changing Employers on Pending STEM OPT

Find the Working in the U.S. (F-1) category in the left menu. Select STEM OPT Requests . Choose the Updated STEM OPT I-20 Request option.

Select STEM OPT Requests .

Choose the Updated STEM OPT I-20 Request option.

Choose the "Currently pending with USCIS" status option.

Upload a PDF copy of: Your current Initial OPT EAD card Your Form I-983 Training Plan (only pages 1-4 ) for your new employer If you will end this employment after your current Initial OPT EAD card end date: I-983 Final Evaluation (pages 1-5 of Form I-983 ) from your previous employer

Your current Initial OPT EAD card

Your Form I-983 Training Plan (only pages 1-4 ) for your new employer

If you will end this employment after your current Initial OPT EAD card end date: I-983 Final Evaluation (pages 1-5 of Form I-983 ) from your previous employer

I-983 Final Evaluation (pages 1-5 of Form I-983 ) from your previous employer

Keep the Updated I-20 for your records. USCIS may send you a Request for Further Evidence (RFE) asking for a copy of your updated I-20 with the new employer on it, as well as a new I-765 with the new employer’s E-Verify number on it. If you receive an RFE, follow the instructions on the RFE. If you need assistance with the RFE, connect with an ISEO advisor .

I-797 Approval Notice and EAD Card

I-797 Approval Notice

USCIS will send you an approval notice (Form I-797) once they have approved your STEM OPT Extension application. USCIS will then process and mail the Employment Authorization Document (EAD Card).

Keep the Approval Notice for your records.

Employment Authorization Document (EAD Card):

You should receive your STEM OPT EAD card shortly (within several days) after receiving your I-797 Approval Notice.

The EAD card serves as your proof of STEM OPT authorization and eligibility to work in the U.S.

When you receive your EAD card, your employer may request a copy for their records to verify your eligibility to work in the U.S.

There is an error on my EAD Card. What should I do?

I did not receive my EAD card. What should I do?

Stage 4: Maintain F-1 Status on Approved STEM OPT

STEM OPT Employment and Unemployment Day Limit

STEM OPT Employment Requirements:

Your job must be a paid position (volunteer employment and unpaid internships are not allowed on STEM OPT).

You must have an employer ( cannot be self-employed).

Your employer must be enrolled in the E-Verify program .

Your position must be related to your STEM degree.

You must be working in your position for at least 20 hours per week . If you have multiple employers at the same time, each position must be at least 20 hours per week.

If you have multiple employers at the same time, each position must be at least 20 hours per week.

Changing STEM OPT Employers:

When a STEM OPT student changes employers, the new employer must fill out the I-983 training plan. ISEO recommends that students receive their new I-983 before beginning work. Students must submit the new I-983 to ISEO through the ' Updated STEM OPT I-20 Request ' in iServices within 10 days of the new employment start date.

Find the Working in the U.S. (F-1) category in the left menu. Select STEM OPT Requests . Choose the Updated STEM OPT I-20 Request option.

Select STEM OPT Requests .

Choose the Updated STEM OPT I-20 Request option.

Choose the "Approved STEM OPT" status option.

Upload a PDF copy of: Your current Initial OPT EAD card Your Form I-983 Training Plan (only pages 1-4 ) for your new employer I-983 Final Evaluation (pages 1-5 of Form I-983 ) from your previous employer

Your current Initial OPT EAD card

Your Form I-983 Training Plan (only pages 1-4 ) for your new employer

I-983 Final Evaluation (pages 1-5 of Form I-983 ) from your previous employer

Unemployment Day Limit:

During STEM OPT, maintaining your F-1 status is dependent upon employment. Students may not exceed a cumulative total of 150 days of unemployment during the STEM OPT period. Unemployment days are cumulative between both your initial 12-month OPT and your STEM OPT. For example, if you used 30 days of unemployment during your initial 12-month OPT, you would have a balance of 120 unemployment days left during your STEM OPT Extension period.

Unemployment days are counted from the ‘Valid From’ date on your EAD card . Students who exceed 150 days of unemployment are in violation of their F-1 visa status. There is no 60-day grace period after the 150th day of unemployment.

If you are approaching your 150 days of unemployment, you must take one of the following actions:

Transfer your SEVIS Record from UC San Diego to a new institution.

Change from F-1 Status to Another Status .

Depart the U.S. and report your departure date in iServices .

What is considered an unemployment day?

Keep your SEVP Portal and I-20 Updated

Follow the chart below for instructions on how to update information according to the change you have.

You are required to submit your updates within 10 days of the change (you can submit your updates before the change occurs).

If you have a change in your employment/personal information and you are due for one of your validation reports around the same time, you should submit both iServices requests.

Description of Change

Required Documents

Changing employers

Updated STEM OPT I-20 Request in iServices (Working in the U.S. category)

Choose option: “Reporting an end date to an employer AND a start date for a new employer”

1. The I-983 (p.1-4 and the Final Evaluation on p.5) for your previous employer 2. The I-983 (p.1-4) for your new employer

1. The I-983 (p.1-4 and the Final Evaluation on p.5) for your previous employer

2. The I-983 (p.1-4) for your new employer

Adding a new employer

Updated STEM OPT I-20 Request in iServices (Working in the U.S. category)

Choose option: “Reporting a new employer”

The I-983 (p.1-4) for your new employer

Ending your current job, but don’t have a new employer yet

Updated STEM OPT I-20 Request in iServices (Working in the U.S. category)

Choose option: “Reporting an end date to an employer with no new employer”

The I-983 (p.1-4 and the Final Evaluation on p.5) for the employment you are ending

Changes to your current job that would change the information on your I-983

Updated STEM OPT I-20 Request in iServices (Working in the U.S. category)

Option: “Reporting a change to a current employer with an updated I-983"

The I-983 (p.1-4) with updated information for your current employer

Changes to your personal address or phone number

Make these changes directly in SEVP Portal

Changes to your name or citizenship

Updated I-20 Request in iServices (Verification and Support Services category)

Choose option: “Update Biographical Information”

The biographical page in your passport

Remove a dependent

Updated I-20 Request in iServices (Verification and Support Services category)

Choose option: “Remove Dependent”

Completing your STEM OPT early due to departing the U.S. before your STEM OPT end date

Ending F-1 Visa Status Request in iServices (Ending your F-1 Visa Status category)

Ending F-1 Visa Status Request in iServices (Ending your F-1 Visa Status category)

Choose option: "Departure from the U.S. due to early withdrawal from STEM OPT"

1. The I-983 (p.1-4 and the Final Evaluation on p.5) for your ending employment 2. Plane ticket showing departure from the U.S.

1. The I-983 (p.1-4 and the Final Evaluation on p.5) for your ending employment

2. Plane ticket showing departure from the U.S.

Completing your STEM OPT early due to transferring to another institution before your STEM OPT end date

1. STEM OPT Validation Request in iServices (Working in the U.S. category) 2. SEVIS Transfer Out Request in iServices (Ending your F-1 Visa Status category)

1. STEM OPT Validation Request in iServices (Working in the U.S. category)

2. SEVIS Transfer Out Request in iServices (Ending your F-1 Visa Status category)

In the Ending Visa Status Request, choose option: "Transferring SEVIS record to new institution" In the Transfer Out Request, choose option: "I am an alumni on approved STEM OPT or am in my STEM OPT grace period"

In the Ending Visa Status Request, choose option: "Transferring SEVIS record to new institution"

In the Transfer Out Request, choose option: "I am an alumni on approved STEM OPT or am in my STEM OPT grace period"

1. The I-983 (p.1-4 and the Final Evaluation on p.5) for your previous employer 2. Letter of admission to new institution

1. The I-983 (p.1-4 and the Final Evaluation on p.5) for your previous employer

2. Letter of admission to new institution

Completing your STEM OPT early due to changing educational level at UC San Diego before your STEM OPT end date

1. STEM OPT Validation Request in iServices (Working in the U.S. category) 2. Change of Program Level I-20 Request in iServices (Changes to Enrollment category)

1. STEM OPT Validation Request in iServices (Working in the U.S. category)

2. Change of Program Level I-20 Request in iServices (Changes to Enrollment category)

In the Ending Visa Status Request, choose option: "Changing educational level at UC San Diego"

In the Ending Visa Status Request, choose option: "Changing educational level at UC San Diego"

1. The I-983 (p.1-4 and the Final Evaluation on p.5) for your previous employer 2. Letter of admission to new institution 3. Proof of funding for new program

1. The I-983 (p.1-4 and the Final Evaluation on p.5) for your previous employer

2. Letter of admission to new institution

3. Proof of funding for new program

Completing your STEM OPT early due to changing your visa status before your STEM OPT end date

Ending F-1 Visa Status Request in iServices (Ending your F-1 Visa Status

Ending F-1 Visa Status Request in iServices (Ending your F-1 Visa Status

Choose option: "Adjustment to visa status other than F-1"

1. The I-983 (p.1-4 and the Final Evaluation on p.5) for your previous employer 2. I-797 approval notice showing your new status

1. The I-983 (p.1-4 and the Final Evaluation on p.5) for your previous employer

2. I-797 approval notice showing your new status

Description of Change

Required Documents

I cannot access or edit information in SEVP Portal. What should I do?

Required: Submit STEM OPT Validation Reports Every 6 Months

Due to federal regulations, STEM OPT students must confirm that their personal and employment information in SEVP Portal is correct every 6 months . Students will receive an email reminder from SEVP Portal via email 30 days before any validation report is due. Log into the SEVP Portal to view a chart that lists your validation report due dates. You are responsible for keeping track of when your validation reports are due.

To avoid missing Validation Report Due Dates, ISEO recommends: 1. Putting all Validation Report Due Dates from your SEVP Portal on a calendar 2. Putting reminders on a calendar to submit Validation Reports in iServices AT LEAST 10 business days (two weeks) before the SEVP Portal Due Date to ensure timely processing

Your iServices request must be submitted within 10 days of your due date . Please note that ISEO has an additional 30 days to submit your report to SEVIS and update the SEVP Portal. Be sure to SUBMIT the report to ISEO within your SEVP Portal due date. The exception to this is the final evaluation, which ISEO can only submit up to the due date (last day of STEM EAD). For additional information, please review the reporting rule from the Department of Homeland Security .

STEM OPT Validation Requirements:

Your validation report is due at 6 months, 12 months, 18 months, and 24 months after the start date of your STEM OPT. The I-983 needs to be submitted with the 12 month and 24 month reports.

Submit the STEM OPT Validation Request i n iServices :

Find the Working in the U.S. (F-1) category in the left menu. Select STEM OPT Requests . Choose the STEM OPT Validation Request option.

Select STEM OPT Requests .

Choose the STEM OPT Validation Request option.

Prepare a PDF copy of: For 12 month reports: Prepare a copy of your I-983 Training Plan (pages 1-4) including the Self Evaluation on page 5. For 24 month reports or early STEM OPT completion reports: Prepare a copy of your I-983 Training Plan (pages 1-4) including the Final Evaluation on page 5.

For 12 month reports: Prepare a copy of your I-983 Training Plan (pages 1-4) including the Self Evaluation on page 5.

For 24 month reports or early STEM OPT completion reports: Prepare a copy of your I-983 Training Plan (pages 1-4) including the Final Evaluation on page 5.

You will receive a confirmation email when your request has been successfully submitted.

ISEO has an average processing time of 10 business days. You will be notified via email when your request is complete.

If you have a change in your employment information and you are due for one of your 6-month validation reports around the same time, you should submit both the Updated STEM OPT I-20 request and the STEM OPT Validation Request at the same time .

No I-983 required

No I-983 required

Upload pages 1-5 of the I-983, including the " Evaluation on Student Progress " section (top half of page 5)

Upload pages 1-5 of the I-983, including the " Evaluation on Student Progress " section (top half of page 5)

No I-983 required

No I-983 required

Upload pages 1-5 of the I-983, including the " Final Evaluation " section of the I-983 (bottom half of page 5)

Upload pages 1-5 of the I-983, including the " Final Evaluation " section of the I-983 (bottom half of page 5)

What is the I-983?

What happens if I miss the deadline for one of my validation reports?

Do I need to submit validation reports that are due after I have ended my STEM OPT?

Traveling on Approved STEM OPT

Passport that is valid up to six months after reentry date

Valid STEM OPT I-20 with valid travel signature on page 2. For post-completion STEM OPT, travel signatures are valid for only six months

For post-completion STEM OPT, travel signatures are valid for only six months

Original STEM OPT EAD card

Recommended: Original job offer letter or verification of employment from employer

Students with expired visas may find it difficult to renew their F-1 visa for practical training purposes. Students on STEM OPT are advised to plan carefully before leaving the U.S. and contact the U.S. Consulate in their home country regarding visa renewal processes. You can also review our general travel and reentry page .

F-1 Optional Practical Training (OPT)

Cap Gap Extension

Pre-Completion OPT

Frequently Asked Questions