Enrolling in Classes

Graduate Enrollment

How to Wait-List a Class

How to Wait-List a Class

If you want to enroll in a class that is full, you can put yourself on a wait list.

Facts about wait-listed classes:

Although, the two pass enrollment does not apply to graduate students, wail listing is not available to students until undergraduates complete their first enrollment pass.

Classes can be wait-listed until 4:30 p.m. on Thursday of the second full week of classes. See deadlines for the academic year.

If you don't meet class requirements when you attempt to move from the wait list into the class, you will not be added to the class.

You may request authorization to enroll in the course through the Enrollment Authorization System (EASy), but cannot request to be added to a wait list.

The last run of the auto wait-list program is Thursday of the second full week of classes at 10 p.m.

If the class or section you want is full:

WebReg will offer you the option of enrolling in another open section of that class, or wait-listing the section.

You can only wait-list for one section of a course.

You can't be simultaneously enrolled and wait-listed in different sections of a course.

Use WebReg if you are pre-authorized to enroll in a full class.

Note: Classes you have wait-listed will display in WebReg.

If you change your mind and want to add or wait-list a different section of a class for which you are already enrolled:

Check the Schedule of Classes to make sure there are seats available.

Drop the section in which you are already enrolled or wait-listed.

After completing the drop, add or wait-list a different section.

Note: If you want to know your place on the wait list, check your Class List.

If you want to find out if you were placed into a section from the wait list:

If you're enrolled in a wait-listed class, you'll be notified by email and it will be included in your enrolled classes on WebReg.

Confirm your grading option on WebReg .

Registrar's Office , (858) 534-3150