If you are experiencing a mental health crisis:

During business hours: Call CAPS Central Office at (858) 534-3755 and ask to speak with an urgent care clinician, or walk-in to the CAPS Office (Galbraith Hall, Room 190)

After Hours: Call CAPS Central Office at (858) 534-3755 and press Option 2 to speak with an on-call counselor. The counselor can connect you with various support options, including Triton CORE — our mobile, compassionate response team available to meet with students on campus until 10:00 PM.

You may also reach Triton CORE by calling UCPD Non-Emergency Line at (858) 534-4357.

For any life-threatening emergencies:

Call 911 or go to the nearest emergency department immediately.

Mental Health Services

Counseling and Psychological Services (CAPS) provides free, confidential psychological counseling, psychiatric services, and crisis services for all registered UC San Diego students who are seeking support for mental health issues (including but not limited to stress, sleep issues, depression, anxiety, academic distress, relationship issues, etc.). CAPS also provides a variety of groups, workshops, and drop-in forums.

To contact CAPS, call (858) 534-3755. All students are screened with a brief telephone assessment.

Behavioral Health Team at Student Health Services

Student Health Services social workers are available for support with referrals to community resources, mental health providers, and medical specialists, as well as support with basic needs (e.g., housing, finances, insurance and food) and navigating challenges at UCSD. We also offer individual and group life coaching sessions for students in the final year of their academic program as they prepare to transition out of the University. Call SHS Group 3 to schedule an appointment at (858) 534-5571.

Behavioral Health Services, provided by CAPS psychologists and psychiatrists for brief, focused, targeted care (e.g., insomnia, anxiety, adjustment to medical diagnoses, stress management, etc.) are also available at SHS. Students can talk with their SHS primary care provider about whether these services would be appropriate to address their concerns.

Tritons RISE Workshops

Want to gain skills and credit for taking care of your well-being? Check out our innovative Tritons RISE Workshops offered daily through CAPS x Recreation!

RISE workshops are open to all currently registered UC San Diego students. You do not need to make an appointment (unless specifically noted on the workshop registration) - simply show up and enjoy! Please note, these educational workshops are not professional counseling or psychotherapy. For more information on receiving Co-Curricular Credit for your participation, please check out the corresponding RISE-CCR page.

The following links are suggested in collaboration with colleagues at Counseling and Psychological Services .

iFlourish Self-Care Resources — Free and anonymous behavioral health screenings, and popular well-being apps such as Headspace and Willo

Well-Being Handouts and Resources — Find helpful handouts on topics such as managing anxiety and stress, improving your mood, coping with grief and loss, strengthening relationships, and increasing well-being.

CDC Mental Health Information

Teens & College Students and Anxiety and Depression — from the Anxiety and Depression Association of America

UC San Diego Center for Mindfulness (CFM) – Daily donation-based meditation practice sessions to help students, staff, and faculty integrate mindful living into all aspects of their lives.

Cost of Services

Clinical Laboratory

Gender-Affirming Care

Radiology (X-ray)

Reproductive Health

Travel Clearance