FAQs for Joint Doctoral Program (JDP) Applicants

Joint Doctoral Programs (JDP) Applicant Questions

Effective Fall 2026: Applicants must submit complete applications for their JDP program of interest at both UC San Diego (UCSD) and San Diego State University (SDSU) The respective application deadlines for your program of interest's applications at both institutions will be the same.

This is a required step for JDP applicants to be fully considered for admission. Please note JDP applicants will not be required to pay the application fee for both applications. Your application fee will be automatically waived when applying to UCSD.

If you have any questions regarding your UC San Diego application, please reach out to your program’s point of contact at UC San Diego or email gradadmissions@ucsd.edu .

Do I need to submit official documents on my UC San Diego application?

Applicants will be responsible for submitting complete applications when they apply to both campuses. UCSD will continue to require unofficial transcripts at the time of application ; official transcripts will be required only upon admission.

Will I have to pay an application fee at both UC San Diego and SDSU?

Am I required to send my test scores to both UC San Diego and SDSU?

Language test scores (TOEFL, IELTS, or DET) are required for applicants required to demonstrate English language proficiency.

Contact Education Testing Services (ETS) and request that your scores be sent to UC San Diego electronically at institution code 4836 and SDSU at institution code 4682 .

I am a JDP applicant who obtained their degree at an international institution. Am I required to submit a Course-by-Course evaluation?

For matriculating international JDP students, the international evaluation requirement at UC San Diego will be waived to ensure our application requirements remain aligned with SDSU.

Non Discrimination Statement : In accordance with applicable Federal and State law and University policy, the University of California does not discriminate, or grant preferences, on the basis of race, color, national origin, religion, sex, disability, and/or other protected categories. More information about Proposition 209 can be found here . More information about the University of California Anti-Discrimination Policy can be found here.

General Application Questions

Application Fee Questions

Funding Questions

Test and Scores Questions

Letters of Recommendation Questions

Transcripts Questions

Gender Identity, Sexual Orientation, Ethnicity Questions

International Applicant Questions

Joint Doctoral Program (JDP) Applicant Questions

Undocumented Student Questions

Admitted Student Questions