Enrolling in Classes

Special Enrollment

Special Programs for UC San Diego Students

Intercampus Visitor Program

Intercampus Visitor Program

Learn how UC Students can enroll in classes at another UC campus through the Intercampus Visitor Program.

About the program

The Intercampus Visitor Program enables qualified undergraduates at the University of California to take advantage of educational opportunities at other UC campuses. Students may take courses that are not available at their home campus, participate in special programs or study with a distinguished faculty member at another campus.

As a participant in the Intercampus Visitor Program, you may enroll at another campus, called the host campus, for only one term. For extenuating circumstances, an exception to this limitation may be granted. Consult the Office of the Registrar at your home campus. Authorization from both campuses is required for this exception.

Consult with your home campus academic advisor about the courses you wish to take at the host campus. Information about these courses can be found in the host campus' General Catalog. You also may want to consult with an advisor at the host campus to find out if there are any special prerequisites or requirements for any of the courses you plan to take.

If you're a senior, it is particularly important that participation in the Intercampus Visitor Program does not prevent you from meeting the academic residency requirement of your home campus.

Applying for the program

To apply, complete an Intercampus Visitor Program Application form (PDF) .

A $70 nonrefundable fee is required. UC San Diego students will have the application fee assessed directly to their student account, which can be paid for online.

Approval signatures are required from both your home campus and the host campus where you intend to enroll.

To qualify as an Intercampus Visitor, you must be an undergraduate who has:

Completed at least one year of residence at your home campus and is currently a continuing student;

Maintained a grade point average of at least 2.0 or the equivalent and is currently in good standing;

Obtained the approval of the Dean or Provost, or a designee, of the college or school in which you are currently enrolled.

Your application is subject to approval by the host campus, and some campuses have additional requirements described on this page.

If you meet the requirements for the Intercampus Visitor Program and wish to participate, consult directly with the Intercampus Visitor Coordinator at your home campus, and then complete the application form .

If you are interested in the intercampus Simultaneous Enrollment Program (concurrent enrollment at your home campus and the host campus), then do not use this form. Contact the Office of the Registrar at your home campus for an application.

Tuition and fees

The host campus will be responsible for any financial aid you receive.

If you currently receive financial aid: Have an officer from your home campus Financial Aid Office sign Item 18 on the Intercampus Visitor Program application.

If you are not a current aid recipient and wish to apply for aid for the term you plan to be an Intercampus Visitor, you must file a financial aid application at the host campus.

In either case, you are responsible for meeting the host campus financial aid application requirements and deadlines.

Some campuses may require you to submit a copy of your home campus financial aid application or file. Other campuses may require that you direct the financial aid application processor to send data directly to the Financial Aid Office. Contact the host campus Financial Aid Office about its requirements as soon as possible.

Upon receipt and analysis of your financial aid application, the Financial Aid Office at the host campus will notify you about the availability of aid. The amount and types of aid for which you are eligible at the host campus may differ from what you receive at your home campus. Intercampus Visitors who are not on-time aid applicants at their host campus will receive aid only if host campus funds permit.

If your Intercampus Visitor Program Application is accepted by the host campus, you must notify the home campus Financial Aid Office immediately.

Home campus approval

Have the Dean or Provost of your college or school, or that person's designee, certify that you are in good standing and eligible for the Intercampus Visitor Program by completing and signing Section B of the application form.

If you plan to take courses to satisfy specific degree requirements, approval of the Dean or Provost, or that person's designee, is required.

Completing the application process

After Sections A and B are completed, take your application to the Cashier's Office at your home campus and pay the processing fee of $70. UC San Diego students will have the application fee assessed directly to their student account, which can be paid for online.

Submit the application to the Office of the Registrar at your home campus. The Registrar will verify your academic standing, complete Section C, and forward your application, a copy of your transcript, and additional paperwork (if any)  to the host campus.

If your application is approved, the Registrar at the host campus will notify you directly about registration procedures. (If you wish to withdraw from this program prior to or during the time of expected enrollment, contact the Office of the Registrar at both your home and host campuses to avoid any financial aid or registration delays.)

At the end of the term, the Registrar at the host campus will forward to your home campus a transcript of the coursework you completed as an Intercampus Visitor. The courses and the grades you earned will be recorded on your permanent transcript at your home campus.

Application filing periods

Application filing periods for the Intercampus Visitor Program*

Fall Quarter/Fall Semester

November 1 - April 30

Winter Quarter/Spring Semester

July 1 - October 31

October 1 - January 1

* Exceptions are noted under the Campus Requirements and Restrictions. Applications must be received by the host campus within the stated filing periods. Berkeley and Merced are on the semester system; all other campuses are on the quarter system.

Campus requirements and restrictions

Applicants should be upper-division students with a declared major.  Students must visit colleges or schools that are the same as, or equivalent to, the ones in which they are enrolled at their home campus.

The uniqueness of the proposed program and its value to the student's major are the main considerations in evaluating applications.

Applicants must present a letter of support from their major advisor or department chair endorsing the visit to Berkeley and indicating the worth of the proposed courses to the student's major.

Intercampus Visitors may not take courses in the College of Engineering or the computer science and economics majors in the College of Letters and Science.  There may be additional impacted areas that are not open to Intercampus Visitors.

Applicants must present written confirmation of support or approval from the faculty advisor in their major.

Students must visit colleges or schools that are the same as, or equivalent to, the ones in which they are enrolled at their home campus.

Intercampus Visitors may not take courses in dance and music in the School of the Arts, as those majors are impacted.

Applicants must present a letter of support from their major advisor or department chair endorsing the visit to Irvine and indicating the worth of the proposed courses to the student's major.

Intercampus Visitors may not take courses in economics, the life sciences (which includes psychology), film and television production, the musical theater or acting tracks, or the physical sciences.  There may be additional impacted areas not open to Intercampus Visitors.

Applicants must submit a letter from their academic advisor verifying the academic worth of the proposed program at UCLA.

Intercampus Visitors may not take courses in biology (EEMB and MCDB), communications, computer science, economics, law and society, psychology or sociology.  There may be additional impacted areas not open to Intercampus Visitors.

Applicants must present a letter of support from their major advisor or department chair endorsing the visit to Santa Barbara and indicating the worth of the proposed courses to the student's major.

All incoming UCSC students, including Intercampus Visitors, receive letter grades.  The Pass/No Pass option is available to students in good standing.  For each course in which credit is earned, whether letter grade or Pass/No Pass, all students will also receive an evaluation.

Applicants should specify on their applications the college they wish to enroll in and a description of their housing needs.

If you have questions: