Living On Campus

Housing Contract and Rates

Housing Guarantee

Housing Guarantee

The undergraduate incoming Fall and Winter class (first-year and transfer students) are eligible for a two-year housing guarantee. Students must reside in on-campus housing for Fall or Winter Quarter of their admit year or they will automatically forfeit their two-year housing guarantee. For example a 2026-27 new incoming first-year student would need to reside in on-campus housing for Fall Quarter 2026.

Housing Guarantee Eligibility

To maintain eligibility* for the two-year housing guarantee, student must comply with the following:

Students must reside in on-campus housing for the entirety of their admit year.

Students must maintain their housing contract for the duration of the academic year or full 12-month contract (Pepper Canyon West only)

Compliance with all: University-imposed deadlines Incoming and Continuing student housing deadlines (including but not limited to: application, contract, payment, and enrollment to maintain housing eligibility) Terms of the University housing contract University policies

University-imposed deadlines

Incoming and Continuing student housing deadlines (including but not limited to: application, contract, payment, and enrollment to maintain housing eligibility)

Terms of the University housing contract

University policies

Students who do not have a housing guarantee can apply to the Housing Waitlist . Continuing students with a two-year guarantee are eligible to participate in Room Selection to apply for on-campus housing.

*Students who participate in University of California Education Abroad Programs (UCEAP) , UC Washington Center (UCDC) , Historically Black Colleges & Universities (HBCU) Exchange Program , late admission, admission deferment, or military leave maintain eligibility for the housing guarantee provided their guarantee has not expired. For example, a new incoming student for Fall 2025 received a two-year housing guarantee, their guarantee expires Spring 2027. The student is participating in a study abroad program for Spring 2027. They would not be guaranteed housing upon their return for Fall 2027 as their guarantee expired the end of Spring Quarter 2027 (Year 1: Fall 2025 to Spring 2026; Year 2: Fall 2026 to Spring 2027).

To check your current eligibility for a future housing contract, you can contact Housing Administrative Services at support.ucsd.edu, via email at housingcontracts@ucsd.edu or call 858.534.4010.

Non Discrimination Statement

In accordance with applicable Federal and State law and University policy, the University of California does not discriminate, or grant preferences, on the basis of race, color, national origin, religion, sex, disability, and/or other protected categories.

More information about Proposition 209 can be found here .

More information about the University of California Anti-Discrimination Policy can be found here .

Housing Contract and Rates

Housing Rates and Services

Housing Guarantee

Housing Contract Process

Incoming Student Dining Plan

Continuing Student Dining Plan