Exams, Grades, & Transcripts

Transcripts & Verifications

Verification Request Frequently Asked Questions

Verification Request Frequently Asked Questions

Expand section General

The Registrar's Office will complete most 3rd party forms. Email the form and your PID to verificationhelp@ad.ucsd.edu .

If you are a current student, former student or alumnus:

Find information on how to order a verification under Requesting a Verification .

If you are a third-party requestor:

Go to National Student Clearinghouse .

Your organization/company must first register with the Clearinghouse in order to verify education. The Clearinghouse can be reached at (703) 742-4200 if you have any questions.

You can find instructions for your log in information on the Requesting a Verification page, under Login information and ordering instructions .

All verifications are covered by the one-time document fee, only certain shipping charges may apply.

Electronic requests are processed the same day.

Regular mail and FedEx are processed the same business day if ordered by 3:30 p.m. (Pacific Time)

The Registrar's Office is able to verify only certain aspects of your records that are on file, such as:

Enrollment, based on use of WebReg (online registration) and EASy

Completed courses, based on grades reported by professors to the Registrar's Office

If you need to provide additional information:

Your conduct files are available to you through your particular undergraduate college or Graduate Division for graduate students.

Self-reported items, such as your address, are not verifiable through the Registrar's Office .

If you make a mistake on your original verification request, you will need to reorder a second verification.  Only certain shipping charges may apply.

Check your verification request very carefully. Once you've placed the order, it cannot be changed or reproduced.

Verifications will not show your graduation until your degree has been conferred.

It can take up to 90 days after the conclusion of your last quarter of attendance for your degree to be conferred.

Do not order a verification of degree before the degree is conferred, or you'll need to reorder the verification once the conferral has taken place.

You can check to see if your degree has been conferred or grades have been finalized by checking your academic history on TritonLink prior to ordering verification.

All transcripts and verifications are printed on security paper, which prevents unauthorized alterations of data.

If photocopied or faxed, the transcript or verification will have “VOID” printed throughout the document.

If altered, brown stains will appear to show attempted changes.

The verification includes the seal of the University of California and the signature of the UC San Diego Registrar.

Contact the Office of the Registrar at verificationhelp@ad.ucsd.edu or (858) 534-3150.