Satisfactory Academic Progress (SAP)

Satisfactory Academic Progress

For students to receive financial aid under the programs authorized by Title IV of the Higher Education Act, the U.S. Department of Education requires you to maintain satisfactory academic progress (SAP) towards completing your degree This is separate from campus academic minimum progress requirements.

When is SAP Reviewed?

SAP is reviewed annually for all students prior to the start of the Fall term.  Students not meeting SAP standards, on SAP Probation, and/or now at Maximum Timeframe are reviewed on a quarterly basis. After spring grades post, preliminary SAP notices will be sent to students not meeting SAP standards. Those students may want to consider if summer courses could help them meet the SAP standards at the time of official SAP review prior to the start of the Fall quarter.

What are the SAP Components?

Grade Point Average Minimum cumulative UC grade point average.

Minimum cumulative UC grade point average.

Pace Cumulative number of courses successfully completed by the cumulative number of courses attempted. NR,NP, I, F, W, IP or missing grades are not successful completion of a course.

Cumulative number of courses successfully completed by the cumulative number of courses attempted.

NR,NP, I, F, W, IP or missing grades are not successful completion of a course.

Maximum Timeframe 150% of the published length of the program.

150% of the published length of the program.

How does this impact students on Financial Aid?

SAP standards apply to all Title IV programs including Federal Pell Grants, Federal Supplemental Educational Opportunity Grants (SEOG), Federal Work-Study, and Federal Direct Loans (Subsidized, Unsubsidized, Parent and Graduate PLUS Loans). SAP standards also apply to the Cal Grant programs, State and University need-based aid.

What are the SAP Requirements?

Undergraduate Undergraduate SAP Standards GPA 2.0 Pace First Year : 1-44 Units: 30% Second Year : 45- 89 Units: 50% Third / Fourth Year : 90+ Units: 66% Readmitted Students : 50% for readmitted year only Maximum Timeframe 258 attempted units

Undergraduate SAP Standards GPA 2.0 Pace First Year : 1-44 Units: 30% Second Year : 45- 89 Units: 50% Third / Fourth Year : 90+ Units: 66% Readmitted Students : 50% for readmitted year only Maximum Timeframe 258 attempted units

Pace First Year : 1-44 Units: 30% Second Year : 45- 89 Units: 50% Third / Fourth Year : 90+ Units: 66% Readmitted Students : 50% for readmitted year only

First Year : 1-44 Units: 30%

Second Year : 45- 89 Units: 50%

Third / Fourth Year : 90+ Units: 66%

Readmitted Students : 50% for readmitted year only

Maximum Timeframe 258 attempted units

258 attempted units

Graduate Graduate SAP Standards GPA 3.0 PACE First Year : 50% Second Year : 66% Maximum Timeframe Varies based on program (see Graduate Standards)

Graduate SAP Standards GPA 3.0 PACE First Year : 50% Second Year : 66% Maximum Timeframe Varies based on program (see Graduate Standards)

PACE First Year : 50% Second Year : 66%

First Year : 50%

Second Year : 66%

Maximum Timeframe Varies based on program (see Graduate Standards)

Varies based on program (see Graduate Standards)

*See Undergraduate and Graduate link for details, exceptions and conditions.

For School of Medicine please visit the Health Sciences Financial Aid Office website

How can I Appeal?

If you don't meet SAP standards you will lose your financial aid eligibility. If you had extenuating circumstances that prevented you from meeting Satisfactory Academic Progress, you may appeal.

The official end of year SAP review takes place after Summer Session grades post. At this point, students not meeting SAP will receive a notice of ineligible SAP status. SAP appeals are available in your MyTritonlink Financial Aid tool.

SAP Appeal Deadlines*

Summer Session 1 2026

Summer Session 2 2026

Special Summer Session 2026

*Once you receive an ineligibility notification, please submit your SAP Appeal as soon as possible but no later than the deadline for the applicable term. Please note that the SAP Appeal may take time to complete, submit, and be reviewed by our office. Submitting an appeal does not guarantee approval. If you are pending SAP Appeal submission, review, and/or approval, you are responsible for all costs associated with your enrollment, including tuition and fees that must be paid by the fee payment deadline for the term. There is no guarantee that SAP Appeals submitted after the published deadline will be reviewed, approved and/or funded.

Have questions? Use this resource to find answers to all your frequently asked questions.

Frequently Asked Questions

Satisfactory Academic Progress