Living On Campus

Application Process

Continuing Student Application Process and Eligibility

Eligibility notices for the Continuing Student Housing Application for the 2026 Room Selection process are sent to students via their UC San Diego email.

Students who completed the full term of their 2025-2026 housing contract and  meet all ongoing campus housing eligibility requirements.

Scholars in UC San Diego programs that provide four years of housing guarantee or mandate living on campus as a condition of their offer.

Eligibility Details & How To Apply

Those eligible to submit a Continuing Student Housing Application and Contract for 2026 Room Selection will be able to do so beginning February 18, 2026 to February 26, 2026 at 11:59PM (PST).

Click on the Housing Portal (login with your campus credentials)

Click on the "2026 Continuing Student Housing Application & Room Selection Process" category

Click on " 2026 Continuing Student Housing Application & Contract" to begin

Access to the application and processes in the Housing Portal will not be updated till February 18th

Students eligible will submit an application for the 2026 Room Selection process.  The application and contract will consist of:

Review and update personal, emergency and confidential contact information.

Completing your roommate matching information.

Electronically signing the contract and making $450 prepayment by the deadline

Other options or preferences that may be available to select from.

Confirmation emails will be sent to your UC San Diego email account.  Failure to complete the Continuing Student Housing Application or Housing Contract means that you will forfeit your housing guarantee for the 2026-27 academic year.  Students that miss the stated housing deadlines can get on the waitlist in May.

The Continuing Student Housing Application and Room Selection process will be very active.  With the number of students accessing it, there can be slowness or delays. You don't need to rush to complete it but should plan accordingly as you need to meet all housing deadlines.

Current Residents With No Housing Guarantee

Eligibility notices for the 2026 Room Selection process will be sent via email to all current residents.  If you receive a notification that you do not have a housing guarantee , we are providing an opportunity for you to share interest in living on-campus for the 2026-27 academic year .

Current residents with no housing guarantee will be able to show interest in on-campus housing beginning February 18, 2026 to February 26, 2026 at 11:59PM (PST).

Click on the Housing Portal (login with your campus credentials)

Click on the "2026Continuing Student Housing Application & Room Selection Process" category

Click on " 2026 Room Selection Interest Form for Non-Guaranteed Student s" to begin

Access to the application and processes in the Housing Portal will not be updated till February 18th.

You'll be asked to confirm interest and will receive an email at your UC San Diego email account.  Showing interest does not indicate that you will receive a housing contract and have a space for the 2026-27 academic year. Should we be able to offer you a space, we will notify you via email of the next steps.  We anticipate being able to send you an update (if needed) via email around the following dates:

March 3rd – email update on receiving a housing contract offer based on available space.

March 5-10 – contract process and due date for the $450 prepayment to those receiving a contract offer ,

April 9-10 - Lottery date/time email sent.

April 16-30 - Room Selection Sign-Up

Students who do not receive an offer for a housing contract will receive updates the week of May 4th.

Deadlines & Details

Additional Housing

Application Process

Contracts & Prepayments

Housing Neighborhood Previews