Types of Financial Aid

As you research options to help meet the cost of your educational goals, take some time to learn more about your options. While loans seem to be most frequently discussed, there are several other great financial aid opportunities you may be eligible to receive - and some that you don’t even need to pay back!

Check out the different types of financial aid below, and click to learn more about each option.

Grants are a form of gift aid, meaning they do not need to be paid back. Grants are awarded based on your financial need.

Loans are a form of financial aid that you can borrow and must be repaid with interest . There are various types of loans available under differing terms and conditions.

Scholarships are awarded on merit, academic excellence, and additional criteria, such as financial need or leadership. Scholarships are a form of gift aid and do not need to be paid back.

Federal and institutional work-study are subsidized student employment programs. Work-study recipients earn money to put toward their educational costs through hourly employment with a work-study job.

Study Abroad & Exchange Programs

Financial aid is available for study abroad programs, exchange programs, and internships during both the summer and the regular academic year.

UC San Diego's Summer Session is considered an addition to the academic year. Limited financial aid funding is available. Be sure to enroll in at least 6 units at your earliest opportunity to be considered for priority funding (if eligible).

Military-Connected Student Benefits

Federal and state programs offer educational benefits for veterans and their eligible family members.

Other Funding Sources

Review our list of additional sources, as you may qualify for educational funding outside UC San Diego.

Have questions? Use this resource to find answers to all your frequently asked questions.

Frequently Asked Questions

Videos focus on applying for financial aid and offer tips on other methods of financing your education.

UC YouTube Resources

Study Abroad & Exchange Programs

Military Affiliated Students

Other Funding Sources