Enrolling in Classes

Undergraduate Enrollment

How to Change a Grading Option or Number of Units per Class

How to Change a Grading Option or Number of Units per Class

Find out how to change the grading option or number of units for variable credit courses.

For Summer Session procedures, see the Summer Session website .

If you are enrolled in over 22 units, use EASy to request a change in grading option or number of units.

Facts about changes:

Effective Winter 2023, the last day to change number of units or a grading option is the Friday of Week 6 of classes at 11:59 p.m. unless manual process is required.  Offices close at 4:30 p.m.

Before the quarter begins and through the deadline (Week 6):

Log onto WebReg and select the correct enrollment term.

On your list of enrolled classes, click the Change button next to the class you want to modify. To change a grading option, select the radio button next to "Letter" or "Pass/ No Pass" to indicate your grading option choice. To change number of units, if this option is available, click on the drop-down menu to select the number of units. Note: Some classes do not have variable units. If the option is available, a drop-down menu will appear on the Change screen.

To change a grading option, select the radio button next to "Letter" or "Pass/ No Pass" to indicate your grading option choice.

To change a grading option, select the radio button next to "Letter" or "Pass/ No Pass" to indicate your grading option choice.

To change number of units, if this option is available, click on the drop-down menu to select the number of units. Note: Some classes do not have variable units. If the option is available, a drop-down menu will appear on the Change screen.

To change number of units, if this option is available, click on the drop-down menu to select the number of units.

Note: Some classes do not have variable units. If the option is available, a drop-down menu will appear on the Change screen.

Click Change again to confirm your edit.

Make sure you see a green confirmation message after you make the change.

Print the confirmation for your records.

If you do not see the green confirmation message, your transaction was not accepted.