Eligibility Requirements

Requirements for Aid Eligibility

Students of all class levels should complete the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) each year to be considered for all types of federal and state aid: grants, work-study, student and parent loans, and some scholarships. For California Dream Act Applicants , instead of the FAFSA you will need to complete the annual CA Dream Act application for state and institutional financial aid.

The 2025-26 institutional and state priority funding deadline is extended to April 2, 2025. We strongly encourage all students to complete their aid application no later than April 2, 2025 to ensure timely financial aid information for 2025-26. Eligible late filers will be considered for federal funding only.

Additional Enrollment Requirements

Federal Pell Grant

Pell Grant  is calculated based on the enrollment intensity percentage.Enrollment intensity is a percentage that represents how many units you are taking compared to a full-time course load. See chart below:

Enrollment Intensity- % of Pell

12 or more (Full time)

5 (less that 1/2 time)

4 (less that 1/2 time)

3 (less that 1/2 time)

2 (less that 1/2 time)

1 (less that 1/2 time)

Cal Grant and Middle Class Scholarship (MCS)

These grant amounts are reduced if you're enrolled in less than 12 units and pay out according to the number of enrolled units:

6–8 units = 1/2 of the award amount

9–11 units = 3/4 of the award amount

12+ units = full award amount

Please note: the enrollment criteria for the UC San Diego Part-time fee reduction program is separate from the federal, state and institutional financial aid disbursement requirements. If enrolled in less than half-time (6 units) students are not eligible for institutional grant and initial loan disbursements for the quarter.

Federal Direct Subsidized/Unsubsidized Loans and Federal Direct PLUS Loans

These loan funds are based on your actual number of enrolled units at the time of disbursement.

You must be enrolled in at least 6 units at the time the loan funds are disbursed to your UC San Diego student account.

Summer Session financial aid (any type)

Please visit Financial Aid for Summer Session

Eligibility Requirements

Be enrolled and admitted to a degree program at UC San Diego.

If you're enrolled as a "limited status" or post baccalaureate student (returning to UC San Diego after graduation), you may be eligible for limited funding in the form of Direct Loan. For eligible students, the Direct Loan annual limits are $7,500 combined subsidized and/or unsubsidized for dependent students, with no more than $5,500 subsidized. The annual limit for an independent student is $12,500, combined subsidized and/or unsubsidized, with no more than $5,500 subsidized.

Be a U.S. citizen or an eligible noncitizen.

You're eligible if you're a:

U.S. national (includes natives of American Samoa and Swain's Island).

U.S. permanent resident who has an I-151, I-551 or I-551C (Alien Registration Receipt Card)

Student who has an Arrival-Departure Record (I-94) from the INS with one of the following designations: Refugee Asylum Granted Indefinite Parole and/or Humanitarian Parole Cuban-Haitian Entrant (Status Pending) Conditional Entrant (valid only if issued before April 1, 1980)

Indefinite Parole and/or Humanitarian Parole

Cuban-Haitian Entrant (Status Pending)

Conditional Entrant (valid only if issued before April 1, 1980)

You are not eligible for federal financial aid if:

You have only a Notice to Apply for Permanent Residence (I-171 or I-464).

You're in the United States on an F1 or F2 student visa only.

You're in the United States on an J1 or J2 exchange visitor visa only.

You have a G-series visa.

Have a valid Social Security number.

The Financial Aid and Scholarships Office will verify your Social Security number with the U.S. Social Security Administration .

Be in good standing with Satisfactory Academic Progress (SAP)

Requirements for satisfactory academic progress for financial aid recipients may differ from the requirements for UC San Diego's minimum progress policy .

You must maintain progress toward a degree to receive and remain eligible for financial aid.

For current undergraduates , this progress includes a 2.0 cumulative GPA and credit for 36 units during the academic year. You can't receive more than 8 units of "U" (unsatisfactory) grades.

For more details and requirements, read UC San Diego's Undergraduate Satisfactory Academic Progress Standards for Financial Aid Eligibility (PDF) .

You must maintain SAP standards and must also meet with an academic advisor for a progress plan at the beginning of each academic year.

Students who fail to meet SAP standards will no longer be eligible for financial aid.

Not be in default on federal education loans, or owe any federal grant money to any institution.

"Default" means a failure to make loan payments or otherwise honor a loan's terms. Loan defaults are reported to credit bureaus and can influence future credit and your ability to receive financial aid.

Check your Pell Grant and Direct Loan history .

Check your Pell Grant and Direct Loan history .

Be Enrolled in the Required Number of Units

Most types of aid require enrollment in at least 6 units per quarter or during Summer Session before funds can be disbursed.

Current Undergraduates: While financial aid may be disbursed while you're enrolled in only 6 units per quarter, you must still meet the Satisfactory Academic Progress guidelines .

Prospective Undergraduates

Read more about UC San Diego's Undergraduate Enrollment Requirements and how they affect various types of financial aid and the amount you'll receive. Some awards may be pro-rated or not disbursed at all if you're not enrolled full-time.

Read more about UC San Diego's Undergraduate Enrollment Requirements and how they affect various types of financial aid and the amount you'll receive.

Some awards may be pro-rated or not disbursed at all if you're not enrolled full-time.

Be aware that repeated units may impact your financial aid

A student cannot receive federal and state financial aid for repeating a course a second time if the course was previously passed. If you are a financial aid recipient planning on taking a course as a second repeat you are advised to consult with the Financial Aid and Scholarships Office regarding any effect to your financial aid eligibility. Visit the Registrar's website for more information on repeating a course.

Facts About Financial Aid and Enrollment

Waitlisted units don't count toward your quarter total.

UC San Diego verifies your enrolled units each quarter before disbursing financial aid funds into your student account.

UC San Diego re-verifies your enrolled units at the end of each quarter's add period.

You may be required to repay previously disbursed aid if you reduce your units to less than 12 units per quarter.

Approved part-time study: Your fees and tuition will be reduced if you're approved for part-time study. This also results in financial aid reduction which may require you to repay previously disbursed aid.

Eligibility Requirements

Packaging Policy

How You Receive Your Financial Aid

Financial Aid Timeline - Current Undergrads

Financial Aid Timeline - 2026-2027 Prospective Undergrads