COVID-19 Testing

Anyone with new COVID-19 symptoms should test and mask right away. Testing for COVID-19 and other respiratory illnesses is also available at SHS and is offered at no charge for students with UC SHIP and RAFT.

No-cost respiratory panel PCR test kits are available through the PREVENT Project in vending machines located at the following sites across campus:

Muir College | Roots Restaurant ( map )

Price Center | First Floor across from Burger King ( map )

South Mesa | 9126 Laundry Room ( map )

Gilman Parking | Corridor of Pepper Canyon Hall ( map )

Anyone can participate in and have access to this no-cost testing for COVID-19, Influenza, and Respiratory Syncytial Virus (RSV) through PREVENT. PREVENT (Preparedness through Respiratory Virus Epidemiology and Community Engagement) is a research center dedicated to understanding and mitigating the spread of respiratory viruses in communities, which contributes to vital research. Visit the PREVENT website to learn how to register as a participant and download the PREVENT app, and for more study information, testing locations, events, and related research and news.

Please note: SHS does not manage the vending machines and cannot assist with machine or test kit issues. For all vending machine and PREVENT testing questions or concerns, please contact PREVENT directly by calling (858) 945-4553 or emailing prevent@health.ucsd.edu. Additional contact information can be found on the PREVENT project website.

Questions About COVID-19?

Please send a secure message directly to the SHS Nursing Team using MyStudentChart for any questions related to COVID-19. This inbox is monitored 7 days a week.

Log in to MyStudentChart > Menu > Student Health Ask a Nurse to send a secure message.

For severe symptoms or after-hours assistance, please call (858) 534-3300 and choose the option for Nurse Advice to speak with a nurse for guidance. This service is available 24/7 to all registered students at no cost.

What Should Students Do if They Test Positive for COVID-19?

UCSD students are recommended to stay home if COVID symptoms are present until no fever is present for 24 hours without using fever reducing medication and other COVID symptoms are improving. If no symptoms are present, recommendations include masking and avoiding contact with people at higher risk for severe COVID for 5 days. See CDC Respiratory Illnesses for more information.

There are no isolation housing spaces or isolation housing options available on-campus. Students living on campus should remain in place, even if they share a room with others.

Counseling & Psychological Services (CAPS) are available by calling (858) 534-3755. More information is available on the CAPS website .

Students whose COVID-19 diagnosis has disrupted their academic obligations are encouraged to contact their Dean of Student Affairs for support.

What Should Students Do if Their Roommate/Suitemate Tests Positive for COVID-19?

If a student’s roommate or other close contact tests positive, it is recommended that the student monitor for symptoms and wear a mask around others. If the student becomes symptomatic, it is recommended to test for COVID-19.

There are no isolation housing spaces or isolation housing options available on-campus. If a student prefers not to stay in their room while their roommate is sick, students can stay with local friends or relatives. Local hotels are also available but will be at the student’s own cost.

COVID-19 Safety Tips

Individuals should assess their personal health status as well as that of those they live with or will be spending time with. Based on their situation and environment, students can integrate a variety of healthy behaviors into their daily activities.

All students should take precautions to protect against getting sick, such as getting the COVID-19 vaccine and updated booster. Moreover, SHS strongly encourages all members of the University community to follow vaccine recommendations adopted by the Center for Disease Control (CDC) and the California Department of Public Health (CDPH).

Masking is currently optional on campus, except in following situations:

Students with known COVID-19 exposure are welcome on campus but should be masked at all times for the 5 days immediately following exposure.

Students who have tested positive for COVID-19 should continue to wear a face mask until the end of day 5 regardless of whether symptoms are present, especially when indoors and anytime they are around others.

Students who have tested negative for COVID-19 while symptoms are present should be masked, especially when indoors and anytime they are around others.

Please be respectful of the masking choices of others and treat everyone with respect and civility. There is no place for harassment or bullying of anyone based on their masking choice.

Student Employees

Students who are also employees should seek employee guidance from the EH&S COVID-19 Guidelines .

COVID-19 Campus Resources and Guidelines

Centers for Disease Control: COVID-19

Centers for Disease Control: Respiratory Illnesses

Advance Directives

Alcohol and Other Drugs

Breast & Testicular Health

Conjunctivitis (Pink Eye)

Eating Disorders

Emergency Contraception

Gastroesophageal Reflux Disease (GERD)

Gynecologic Cancers (PDF)

Hepatitis A, B and C

Human Papillomavirus (HPV)

Medication Abortion

Methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA)

Molluscum Contagiosum

Painful Periods (Dysmenorrhea)

Pelvic Inflammatory Disease (PID)

Physical Activity

Plant Dermatitis

Polycystic Ovary Syndrome (PCOS)

Pregnancy Testing

Temporomandibular Joint Disorders (TMJ)

Urinary Tract Infections (UTIs)

Vaginal Infections