Pelvic Inflammatory Disease (PID)

Pelvic Inflammatory Disease (PID)

PID is a serious, contagious infection occurring in the uterus, fallopian tubes, and/or ovaries and only affects people with these organs. The infection is most often caused by untreated sexually transmitted infection (STI) bacteria (most commonly gonorrhea and chlamydia) that spread from the vagina into the reproductive organs. However, bacteria normally found in the vagina can also cause PID.

Symptoms of PID can range from mild to severe and may begin abruptly. The most common PID symptoms include:

Pain in the lower abdomen or pelvis May worsen with walking or other physical activity

May worsen with walking or other physical activity

Abnormal vaginal discharge Often yellow or green and foul smelling

Often yellow or green and foul smelling

Irregular menstrual periods or random spotting/cramping

Pain during sexual intercourse

Burning/pain with urination

Nausea and vomiting

The longer the infection is present, the more serious its effects can become. If left untreated, PID can lead to significant complications such as infertility, ectopic pregnancy (the fertilized egg grows outside the uterus), and chronic pelvic pain that does not go away. Symptoms of PID should be evaluated by a healthcare provider immediately. Treatment of PID requires antibiotics and close follow-up to ensure the treatment is working. Patients diagnosed with PID should notify their sexual partners so they can receive treatment. It is important to abstain from sex while receiving PID treatment to help prevent re-infection.

The following practices can lower a person’s risk of developing PID:

Practice safe sex and always use condoms to lower the risk of getting an STI.

Get tested regularly for STIs, before any new partners, and whenever symptoms are present.

Do not douche. Douching spreads bacteria to other areas such as the uterus, ovaries, and fallopian tubes and removes normal protective bacteria from the vagina.

Learn more about PID from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and Office on Women’s Health .

If you are currently sick or injured and need medical advice, call (858) 534-3300 to speak with a registered nurse who can provide guidance. This service is available 24/7 to all students at no cost. You may also message the nursing team during regular hours via MyStudentChart: Menu > Student Health Ask-a-Nurse.

Advance Directives

Alcohol and Other Drugs

Breast & Testicular Health

Conjunctivitis (Pink Eye)

Eating Disorders

Emergency Contraception

Gastroesophageal Reflux Disease (GERD)

Gynecologic Cancers (PDF)

Hepatitis A, B and C

Human Papillomavirus (HPV)

Medication Abortion

Methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA)

Molluscum Contagiosum

Painful Periods (Dysmenorrhea)

Pelvic Inflammatory Disease (PID)

Physical Activity

Plant Dermatitis

Polycystic Ovary Syndrome (PCOS)

Pregnancy Testing

Temporomandibular Joint Disorders (TMJ)

Urinary Tract Infections (UTIs)

Vaginal Infections