Scholar Services

iServices Instructions for Scholars

J-1 Scholar Out of Country Notification

J-1 Scholar Out of Country Notification

Scholars should submit an Out of Country Notification to ISEO if they are departing the US for more than 60 days.

For detailed information regarding Out of Country Notifications, requirements, and processes, please visiting our Out of Country Notification page.

Before Submitting an Out of Country Notificiation

Have you spoken to your department? Submitting an Out of Country Notification to ISEO allows our office to put an Out of Country status on your SEVIS record. However, it is your department that would authorize any leave from your current appointment. Some appointments may not allow extended leaves of absence.

If you are planning to work remotely, please make sure to discuss this with your department as this may have tax implications, and may also require a review from export control.

When submitting the Out of Country Notification, you will be asked to provide the name and contact information of your PI or supervisor. Please make sure to discuss this with them prior so they know you are planning an extended period of time outside of the U.S.

Do you have a Travel Signature? J-1 scholars will require a travel signature in order to re-enter the US. If you will be traveling, you can also request a Travel Signature in iServices.

Do you have a valid, unexpired J-1 visa? A valid J-1 visa will be required in order to re-enter the US. If you will need to renew your visa prior to re-entering the US, the Department of State lists estimated appointment wait times on its website to help you plan accordingly.

Submitting an Out of Country Notification

While completing the Out of Country Notification, please make sure to review all information carefully to ensure compliance with the J-1 program.

J-1 Out of Country Limitation and Dates Out of Country periods may not exceed 6 months. If you have questions about this, please contact your ISEO advisor.

We will ask for your estimated travel dates. We understand you may not know your exact return date. When completing the form, it is acceptable to enter an estimated return date. You can then adjust this by reaching out to ISEO prior to your return to the US.

Health Insurance Requirements and Continued Collaboration J-1 scholars are required to maintain health insurance and to continue collaboration with UC San Diego. Make sure to review all the provided information prior to agreeing to these sections.

Visiting Graduate Students Only Please let us know if you are a VGS who is ending their appointment, with the intention to return in a paid appointment at UC San Diego. This would require your department to agree that they have an intention to hire you into a paid position.

Such requests will be considered on a case-by-case basis - your scholar advisor may reach out to you with additional questions and information.

iServices Instructions for Scholars

Initial J-1 Requests

J-1 Extension Request

H-1B/E-3/TN Initial Requests

H-1B/E-3/TN Extension/Amendment Requests

Register with ISEO

J-1 Scholar Insurance Verification

J-1/J-2 Travel Signature

J-1 Scholar Out of Country Notification

Update Contact Information

Replacement DS-2019

J-1 Student Intern

J-1 Occasional Lecture/Consultation

Separation/Departure/Transfer Out

Change to Permanent Residency

Other Status Registration