Scholar Services

H-1B Prearrival Information

H-1B Prearrival Information

Step 1: Receive Approval Notice

Once USCIS approves the H-1B petition submitted by UC San Diego on your behalf, they will send ISEO an I-797 Notice of Action Approval .

ISEO will notify you and your department contact via email when we receive the original approval notice from USCIS. The email will contain a copy of the approval notice.

To receive the original approval notice , you will have the option to pickup in person or provide us with a label to have the approval notice shipped to you.

Step 2: Review your Form I-797

This I-797 represents USCIS approval of your H-1B petition. All of the information on the I-797 approval must be accurate, please review your I-797 and report any errors immediately to ISEO.

If your H-1B petition was submitted as a Change Of Status, Extension, or Port (transfer) , then your I-797 will include an attached I-94 record at the bottom. This information should be checked as well.

If your H-1B petition was submitted through Consular Notification , your I-797 will not include an attached I-94 record. You will receive an I-94 after applying for an H-1B visa and entering the U.S. in H-1B status.

Step 3: Understand your H-1B Status

About H-1B Status

H-1B status is for internationals in a "specialty occupation" that requires "theoretical and practical application of highly specialized knowledge" and a Bachelor's or higher degree. H-1B petitions are employer-sponsored petitions, and ISEO has the sole authority to represent UC San Diego in filings with the U.S. Dept. of Homeland Security.

Departments may initially petition for up to three years of employment and later request extensions to total six years . You may be able to extend your H-1B status beyond the six year limit, if you have an approved I-140 immigrant petition and are not able to file an adjustment of status petition due to visa bulleting backlog. Time spent outside the U.S during the six years of H-1B can be recaptured.

H-1B appointments must be full-time and fully salaried (stipends not allowed).

Substantive changes in H-1B employment must be approved by USCIS with an amended petition submitted prior to the change in employment circumstances; substantive changes include moving between represented and nonrepresented positions or between different represented positions, or from research to clinical care.  A normal stepwise progression within an employment series (e.g. Assistant Project Scientist to Associate Project Scientist) will not require an amended petition.

Complete H-1B Orientation

H-1B scholars are expected to comply with U.S. Department of Labor (DOL) and U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) regulations in order to maintain valid H-1B status. ISEO provides H-1B orientation to help scholars understand these requirements and access resources that support maintaining status while working at UC San Diego.

H-1B orientation is provided through Homebase, ISEO’s self-paced online orientation platform.

Access to the orientation is granted through iServices. When an H-1B petition is sent to USCIS, ISEO will email the scholar with instructions to log in to iServices and complete the eForm titled “H-1B Scholar Orientation.” Scholars must submit this eform in order to be enrolled in the Homebase course. The orientation cannot be accessed directly without completing this step. Scholars will be asked to create homebase login credentials as part of the process to access the orientation materials.

Once the H-1B petition is approved, scholars will receive a follow-up email with helpful information about maintaining H-1B status, employment requirements, important reporting responsibilities, and a reminder to complete the H-1B orientation.

If you have questions after reviewing the materials, please contact ischolars@ucsd.edu .

Step 4: Apply for a Visa

Original I-797 (current H-1B approval notice)

Copy of your H-1B petition (including I-129 and LCA)

Letter from your employer/sponsoring department certifying continued employment at UC San Diego

If you were previously in J status and subject to the 212e Two-Year Residency Requirement, bring your I-612 waiver approval or proof of fulfilling the two-year requirement.

*Please note: If your passport expires before the end date on your I-797 H-1B approval notice, your status end date will be reduced accordingly on your physical or electronic I-94 Arrival/Departure record.

You may face delays, denials, or challenges while applying for a visa or entering the U.S., visit our Visa and Travel Incident Reporting page for additional details on how to navigate these situations.

For those currently in the U.S., please see change of status or transfer-in procedures.

Step 5: Prepare to Enter the U.S.

Review your Immigration Documents Review your passport and visa page. Your first/given name and last/family name should be the same on both documents. If there are any errors, contact the U.S. Embassy or Consular Post immediately.

Place your original passport with valid visa, support letter, employment documents, and I-797 approval notice in your purse or carry-on baggage to present to the inspector upon entering the U.S.

View current travel/re-entry information .

Apply for I-94 prior to entry

If entering via land border (not air/sea) you MUST apply for an I-94 within seven days prior to entering the U.S.; there is a $30 application fee. After entry, you can retrieve your I-94 online .

If you are entering via air or sea you do NOT need to apply for an I-94 prior to your entry. After entry, you can retrieve your I-94 online .

Should you be looking for housing options around UC San Diego, or would like more information on how to set-up a new home, the housing page has helpful resources on living in San Diego.

Be Aware of Potential Scams

Be aware of potential scams—people trying to extort money from you around topics such as Social Security Numbers, Housing deposits, and Taxes.

Please refer to our legal matters page with helpful resources to learn about protecting your identity and information while in the U.S.

If you are unsure, please contact your department or ischolars@ucsd.edu as we may be able to provide you with the resources to help you determine if you are encountering a scam.

Step 6: How to get to San Diego

Arrival at Los Angeles International Airport (LAX)

San Diego is located 112 miles (180 kilometers) south of Los Angeles.

If you are arriving at Los Angeles Airport (LAX) will need to take a commuter flight, bus, train, or shuttle to San Diego.

LAX general transportation Information to and from LAX

Shuttles: Shuttle service from LAX to UCSD costs may vary. Advance reservations are strongly encouraged. PrimeTime Shuttle Super Shuttle

PrimeTime Shuttle

Bus LAX FlyAway Bus to Los Angeles Union Transit Station Greyhound Flix Bus has stops in San Diego, including La Jolla (UTC)

LAX FlyAway Bus to Los Angeles Union Transit Station

Flix Bus has stops in San Diego, including La Jolla (UTC)

Train Amtrak from Los Angeles Union Transit Station to San Diego (Pacific Surfliner) Metrolink from Los Angeles Union Transit Station to Solana Beach

Amtrak from Los Angeles Union Transit Station to San Diego (Pacific Surfliner)

Metrolink from Los Angeles Union Transit Station to Solana Beach

Ride Share Lyft UCSD-affiliate discount Uber

Lyft UCSD-affiliate discount

UCSD-affiliate discount

Commuter Flights: If you arrive at LAX you may choose to take a commuter flight to the San Diego Airport. Alaska Commuter American Eagle Continental Express Delta Connection United Express US Airways Express

Continental Express

Delta Connection

US Airways Express

Arrival at San Diego International Airport (SAN)

Also known as Lindbergh Field, San Diego International Airport is located 11 miles (18 kilometers) south and slightly east of UCSD.

San Diego Airport General Transportation Information Shuttle Services Information

General Transportation Information

Shuttle Services Information

San Diego Trolley - Blue Line has two stops on Campus From the San Diego Airport you can take the FLYER Shuttle (FLYER Shuttle is free/no charge) to Old Town Transit Center then Trolley Blue Line to campus.

From the San Diego Airport you can take the FLYER Shuttle (FLYER Shuttle is free/no charge) to Old Town Transit Center then Trolley Blue Line to campus.

Shuttle Service EZ Ride Shuttle Prime Time Shuttle

Prime Time Shuttle

Ride Share Lyft UCSD-affiliate discount Uber

Lyft UCSD-affiliate discount

UCSD-affiliate discount

Once you arrive to the U.S., visit our Arriving in the U.S. webpage for arrival instructions.

H-1B Prearrival Information

H-1B Arrival Information

J-1 Prearrival Information

J-1 Arrival Information

Prospective Scholars

Understanding SEVIS

J-1 and H-1B Comparison