Other Funding Sources

Other Funding Sources

Additional funding sources may be available to help cover educational costs. Check out the list below to learn more about these possible options.

Alan Pattee Scholarship Act: Tuition Fee Waiver

Under this State law, currently enrolled eligible University of California students who are the surviving spouse or child of a law enforcement officer who passed away in the line of duty may be eligible to waive their systemwide tuition and fees.

Children of Fallen Heroes Scholarship

2023- 2024 and prior : Currently enrolled Federal Pell-eligible students whose parent or guardian died in the line of duty while performing as a public safety officer is eligible to receive a maximum Pell Grant.

College Corps at UC San Diego

Students accepted into the College Corps program at UC San Diego will engage in community-serving opportunities that focus on K-12 education, while also receiving financial compensation and other benefits .

Eligibility Requirements

Iraq and Afghanistan Service Grant (IASG)

2023- 2024 and prior : If your parent or guardian died as a result of military service in Iraq or Afghanistan, and you are currently enrolled, you may be eligible for this Federal grant.

Prepaid Educational Savings Plans and Trusts (529, QTP)

Find out how to pay your bill using prepaid educational savings plans and educational trust funds.

Tuition Benefit Plans

Find out how to pay your bill using tuition benefit plan funds.

Vocational Rehabilitation Funds

Learn how to pay your bill using California vocational rehabilitation funds.

Have questions? Use this resource to find answers to all your frequently asked questions.

Frequently Asked Questions

Study Abroad & Exchange Programs

Military Affiliated Students

Other Funding Sources Alan Pattee Scholarship Act Children of Fallen Heroes College Corps at UC San Diego Iraq and Afghanistan Service Grant Prepaid Educational Savings Plans and Trusts (529, QTP) Tuition Benefit Plans Vocational Rehabilitation Funds

Alan Pattee Scholarship Act

Children of Fallen Heroes

College Corps at UC San Diego

Iraq and Afghanistan Service Grant

Prepaid Educational Savings Plans and Trusts (529, QTP)

Tuition Benefit Plans

Vocational Rehabilitation Funds