Admitted Students

When You Arrive on Campus

When You Arrive on Campus

Pick-up your student ID

All students enrolled for the current school quarter are entitled to a Triton ID Card. This is your official university ID card, and you are issued just one active card. https://sfs.ucsd.edu/campus-cards/your-student-id.html#Graduate-Students-

Update your contact information on Triton Link

Please make sure to keep your contact information up to date on Triton Link .

Attend Graduate Student Welcome Events

The Division of Graduate Education and Postdoctoral Affairs offers a series of welcome activities for new graduate and professional students.  For more information, please visit our New Graduate Student Orientation page.

Check-in with your department and attend their orientation if applicable

Some departments and programs host their own orientation.  Contact your department for more information.

Complete Required Trainings

The University of California, San Diego is committed to maintaining an environment where our community thrives, free of discrimination and harassment, including sexual harassment and sexual violence. Federal and state law, as well as University policy, require that all new and returning students receive education about discrimination and harassment prevention once per Academic Year. In addition, as a condition of enrollment, all currently enrolled UC students must take the Discourse and Free Expression training.

1) The SHAPE training provides education for all students on content covered by the UC Policies on Sexual Violence and Sexual Harassment and Anti-Discrimination . The program introduces students to our student community, educational environment, and behavioral expectations at UC San Diego. Students help to shape this community, and we hope that all members of the community take a proactive role in creating a welcoming campus environment for everyone. New students must log into Canvas to complete this training. More information can be found here .

2) University of California students have a right to express themselves, engage in dialogue, peaceably assemble, engage in the free exchange of ideas, and participate fully in educational programs free from conduct that creates a hostile environment, results in differential treatment, or infringes on the rights of others. All UC students are required to take the Discourse and Free Expression training and acknowledge the University’s policies. The training covers information about these rights, dialoguing across difference, reasonable time, place, and manner restrictions, and the policies and reporting options relevant to these ideals.

These courses must be completed by October 31st.  If you do not complete the course by the deadline, a hold will be placed on your registration for Winter quarter.

Non Discrimination Statement : In accordance with applicable Federal and State law and University policy, the University of California does not discriminate, or grant preferences, on the basis of race, color, national origin, religion, sex, disability, and/or other protected categories. More information about Proposition 209 can be found here . More information about the University of California Anti-Discrimination Policy can be found here.

Admitted Students

What to Do Immediately

Before You Arrive on Campus

When You Arrive on Campus

International Students

Undocumented Student Guide