Programs and Events

Employment Workshops

This page has a friendly link that's easy to remember: iworkwebinars.ucsd.edu

Find upcoming and recorded workshops and webinars for international students and scholars regarding employment.

International Student Workshops

J-1 | Working in the U.S.

Getting a job or internship is an integral part of your student experience at UC San Diego, but it’s important to know the rules. This session will cover work authorization regulations for J-1 students.

See the recorded webinar here.

Register for upcoming iWorkshops: Employment Options for J-1 Students via our iEvents Calendar .

F-1 | Working in the U.S.

Getting a job or internship is an integral part of your student experience at UC San Diego, but it’s important to know the rules. This session will cover work authorization regulations for F-1 students.

See the recorded webinar here.

Register for upcoming iWorkshops: Employment Options for F-1 Students via our iEvents Calendar .

F-1 | Optional Practical Training (OPT)

F-1 Optional Practical Training (OPT) is a type of employment authorization for F-1 students that allows the opportunity to pursue a 12-month period of work experience in your major field of study. The authorization can be used for a paid position located on-campus or off-campus.

How can I apply for OPT?

Review the four stages to OPT approval here.

Register for upcoming iWorkshops: OPT & STEM OPT for F-1 Students via our iEvents Calendar .

Frequently asked questions:

Can I still apply for OPT more than 30 days after my OPT I-20 is issued?

How do I choose my OPT start date?

What if I am approaching 90 days of unemployment on OPT?

What do I have to include in my OPT application to USCIS?

Can I travel while my OPT application is pending?

If my OPT is pending after my 60-day grace period, can I remain in the U.S.?

When do I have to report my employment to SEVP Portal?

What counts as employment for OPT?

F-1 | Next Steps: Options After Graduation

Are you an F-1 international student completing your program this Spring or Summer? If so, this informational session is for you! Grab a cup of coffee and tune in to understand options available to you to maintain your F-1 status in the U.S. after graduation, including working, transferring to a new school/program, or pursuing a higher degree level at UC San Diego!

See recorded webinar here .

How to Find Internationally Friendly Employers

Do you need help with finding employment? Take a look at our How to Find Internationally Friendly Employers page to find information about the UCSD Career Center, Job Search Rsources, Employer Data from UCSD alumni on OPT, STEM OPT, and Academic Training, and more.

Landing Your First Internship as an International Student

Learn from other international students how they landed their first internship! In this session, we'll discuss topics such as the application process, work authorization and timing. This workshop was hosted by the International Services and Engagement Office and the Career Center.

Landing Your First Internship as an International Student Webinar - Winter 2025 Recording | Presentation slides

Recording | Presentation slides

Understanding the H-1B Lottery and Planning Ahead

Planning for H-1B sponsorship? Join ISEO to learn how the H-1B lottery works, which employers are subject to the cap and which are cap-exempt, key timelines, and recent updates, including the new weighted selection process and registration fee increases. We also discuss steps you can take now to prepare and strategies to help you plan your immigration options beyond OPT and STEM OPT.

Diana Vellos Coker of Larrabee, Albi, Coker LLP provides an overview of the H-1B CAP basics and the recent changes, including the new weighted selection process, registration fee increases, the cap status and more.

Understanding the H-1B Lottery and Planning Ahead - Winter 2026 Recording | Presentation Slides

Recording | Presentation Slides

International Scholar Workshops

H1B | Changing Status to H1B

Are you interested in changing your current immigration status to H1B? This workshop will provide an overview of the H1B status and how to change to H1B. Topics will include institutional policy, job titles, 212e restrictions, costs, timing and more.

Additional Dates Coming Soon

Maintenance of Status

Educational Workshops