Student Services

Starting a New Program

Additional Resources

Summer Session Visiting Program for Alumni

UC San Diego Alumni Enrolling in Summer Session

F-1 students who have completed a degree with UC San Diego and are currently on approved OPT or STEM OPT may be eligible to enroll in the Summer Session Visiting Program in order to take additional courses at UC San Diego during summer session as alumni.

Meet Admission and Eligibility Requirement

Students must meet all of the following requirements in order to be eligible to apply for this program:

Currently located INSIDE the U.S.

Are currently approved for Post-Completion OPT or STEM OPT

Have completed a degree with UC San Diego

Are maintaining F-1 Status (J-1 students are not currently eligible for this program)

Students in the Summer Session Visiting Program are NOT eligible for off-campus employment through Curricicular Practical Training (CPT) or Optional Practical Training (OPT). However, students are eligible for on-campus employment during the period of their academic program of study. Because the employment is "incident to status," no authorization from the ISEO or the U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS) is required.

Apply for Summer Session Online

If you have forgotten your student ID, please contact Summer Session.

If you have your student ID, but don't remember your password: use the Password Change tool

Once you access your online application, you should receive an email from Summer Session verifying your enrollment. Save this email as a PDF.

Apply for a Change of Level

Submit the Change of Program Level Request in iServices :

Prepare PDF copies of: Your Summer Session Enrollment Email showing acceptance to a new program level Your bank statement(s) or financial support letter(s) to show funding for the entire duration of the program Your most recent I-94 to show your last date of entry into the U.S. and to verify you are currently located in the U.S. Your EAD Card showing you are currently on approved OPT or STEM OPT

Your Summer Session Enrollment Email showing acceptance to a new program level

Your bank statement(s) or financial support letter(s) to show funding for the entire duration of the program

Your most recent I-94 to show your last date of entry into the U.S. and to verify you are currently located in the U.S.

Your EAD Card showing you are currently on approved OPT or STEM OPT

Maintain Full-Time Enrollment through Summer

You are required by F-1/J-1 regulations to maintain full-time status (6 units of enrollment or more) for the summer session(s) you are participating in. Students who are unable to maintain full-time enrollment should learn more about eligiblity for a Reduced Course Load .

Students who choose to enroll in Summer Session I are eligible to extend their program to enroll full-time through Summer Session II. Students enrolled in the Summer Session Visiting program may only enroll in Summer Session and may not enroll in the fall quarter at UC San Diego unless they have been approved to begin a new degree program at UC San Diego and are eligible for a Change of Level .

After Completion

Students enrolled in the Summer Session Visiting program may not continue enrollment in the fall quarter at UC San Diego unless they have been approved to begin a new degree program at UC San Diego and are eligible for a Change of Level . At the end of their program, F-1 students have a 60 day grace period. Before the end of the grace period, students are eligible to take one of the following options:

Transfer SEVIS Record

Change to another visa status

Change to a new degree level at UC San Diego (Admission Required)

RETURN TO iNEWSTUDENTS HOMEPAGE

Additional Resources

New Undergraduate (Bachelor’s) Students

New Graduate (Master’s and PhD) Students

New Exchange (Non-Degree) Students

New Summer Session Visiting Students

Summer Session Visiting Program for Alumni

Sponsored Students

Prospective Students