Student Services

Sponsored Students

Sponsored Student Services

Advising Services

Advise sponsored students on the terms of their sponsorship, facilitate sponsor-specific procedures, such as paperwork for extension requests, health insurance waiver requests*, reimbursement, dependent certification and others. Act as a liaison with sponsor to solve issues.

Provide personal counseling and advising of students on all matters of concern, including immigration, cultural adjustment, and personal well-being.

Support with application for Individual Tax Payer Identification Numbers (ITIN) for students who do not qualify for Social Security Numbers to facilitate the disbursement of scholarship monies.

Pre-departure and reentry interviews for sponsored students concluding their program at the University.

*Please note that students will be required to sign a “FERPA Release Form” in order for ISEO to release information protected by U.S. FERPA laws directly to sponsors.

Support Services

Liaison with the Office of Undergraduate Admissions and Office of Graduate Admissions to facilitate admission of sponsored students. Review and routing of application packages on request by sponsor to admissions office and departments.

Ongoing academic monitoring, identification of issues impacting individual academic success, academic counseling of students experiencing difficulties, help with navigation of and access to support services at the University. Working with academic advisers to facilitate student success. Facilitate issuance of transcripts (official and unofficial) at the end of each quarter upon sponsor request.

Liaison with the Student Health Insurance Plan (SHIP) office to coordinate benefits, resolve claims issues, explain coverage, and facilitate waivers from the University insurance mandate if appropriate.

Liaison with Housing and Dining Services and Residential Life offices to reserve spaces for sponsored students in residence halls upon request by the sponsor. We can request, but cannot guarantee, roommate matching and sponsored students placement with roommates who are U.S. citizens.

Financial Services

In collaboration with Student Business Solutions (SFS): Coordinate financial arrangements, such as billing for students; assist and route billing authorization letters, monitor student accounts, and distribute checks to students.

Assist in the negotiation of University cost-share arrangements on behalf of sponsors with University departments and Colleges, and packaging of awards into student accounts.

Additional Services

Orientation for sponsored students that explains campus resources, cultural adjustment, and health and safety.

Workshops during the quarter on selected topics of interest.

Referrals to facilitate placement of students in appropriate professional affiliations to complement their academic experience.

Coordination of sponsor site visits to UC San Diego, including scheduling of appointments with relevant University faculty and staff, academic advisers, students, and other University officials.

Expedited issuance of visa documents after admissions decisions have been made.

Sponsored Students

Sponsor Organizations