Admitted Students

What to Do Immediately

What to Do Immediately

Accept your admission offer and submit your SSN

Please log in to your application portal and indicate your admission decision by completing the "Decision Reply Form." UC San Diego supports the Council of Graduate Schools' Resolution Regarding Graduate Scholars, Fellows, Trainees and Assistants , which states that you are under no obligation to respond to offers of financial support prior to April 15 .

Your "Decision Reply Form" will also include the submission of your Social Security Number / Taxpayer Identification Number. This is necessary for a number of business processes.

Set up your UCSD password

** For incoming students with a Fall 2026 start date - UCSD credentials are anticipated to be released by May 15, 2026 **

It is important that you set up your password for your Triton Student Number (TSN) to enable you to access resources such as class booking and financial tools. You will need your TSN and City of birth which can be found on your application portal . Please enter both fields exactly as they appear on the applicant portal.

The information below applies to incoming students with a Summer 2026 start date :

Please wait at least 72 hours after accepting admission to complete this step. In some cases, it may take up to a week to generate your PID.

It is important that you set up your password for your Personal Identification number (PID) to enable you to access resources such as class registration and financial tools. You will need your PID and City of birth which can be found on your application portal . Please enter both fields exactly as they appear on the applicant portal.

Activate and Access Your UCSD E-Mail

** For incoming students with a Fall 2026 start date - UCSD credentials are anticipated to be released by May 15, 2026 **

On or after May 15, 2026, to activate and access your UCSD e-mail account, please refer to the IT Services web page .

The information below applies to incoming students with a Summer 2026 start date:

Refer to the IT Services web page .

Complete the Statement of Legal Residence

This step is not required for MAS, MCEPA, MF, MSBA, MPAc, or Flex MBA students.

Not required for joint doctoral students in the following programs: JDP-AUD, JDP-BENG, JDP-ECE, JDP-LCD, JDP-MSED, JDP-MAE, or JDP-SE .

Applicants who accept an offer of admission must complete the Statement of Legal Residence form within 2 weeks of accepting admission .  To submit the Statement of Legal Residence, log in to your application portal and complete the Statement of Legal Residence form listed in the "Forms" section. Your registration cannot be completed until this form is on file. If after accepting admission you decide not to enroll, notify your department immediately in writing or by email. More information about residency can be found at the Registrar's website . Questions about residency status should be addressed to the Residency Deputy . Read about possible exemptions, waivers, and definitions at http://students.ucsd.edu/finances/fees/residence/exemptions.html .  To request an AB 540 nonresident waiver, email residencedeputy@ucsd.edu .

Sign-up for housing

For incoming students with a Fall 2026 start date please follow the instructions below:

For students admitted to a Graduate Program for Fall 2026 , campus student numbers will be issued by May 15, 2026 .

Before May 15, 2026:

To help you join the housing waitlist before you receive your student number, we offer a temporary account request process specifically for newly admitted Graduate students for Fall 2026. Please follow the steps below:

Navigate to the graduate housing website .

You will first need to request access by clicking on the "Request a Temporary Username and Password" button.  Requests will be reviewed for eligibility and you will be notified via email in about 48 hours.

Once approved, please click the "Log In With Temporary Username and Password" button.

Please note that students who are NOT incoming Fall 2026 will have requests for temporary account denied. All other graduate students should log in using "Single Sign-On".

After May 15, 2026:

Learn more about UC San Diego on-campus housing opportunities here.

Get on the waitlist by submitting a housing application online. You will need your UCSD SSO credentials to add yourself to the waitlist.

You will need your UCSD SSO credentials to add yourself to the waitlist.

For additional housing options in the area, visit the Off-Campus Housing site.

Incoming students with a Summer 2026 start date please follow the instructions below:

Learn more about UC San Diego on-campus housing opportunities here.

Get on the waitlist by submitting a housing application online. You will need your UCSD SSO credentials to add yourself to the waitlist.

You will need your UCSD SSO credentials to add yourself to the waitlist.

For additional housing options in the area, visit the Off-Campus Housing site.

Non Discrimination Statement : In accordance with applicable Federal and State law and University policy, the University of California does not discriminate, or grant preferences, on the basis of race, color, national origin, religion, sex, disability, and/or other protected categories. More information about Proposition 209 can be found here . More information about the University of California Anti-Discrimination Policy can be found here.

Admitted Students

What to Do Immediately

Before You Arrive on Campus

When You Arrive on Campus

International Students

Undocumented Student Guide