Writing Resources

Writing Resources

Find links to campus writing programs, and resources to help you with your writing requirements and assignments.

Writing Hub : Supports undergraduate and graduate student writers through one-on-one writing consultations. Get feedback on any writing project at any stage in the writing process — brainstorming, topic selection, organizing ideas, or polishing a final draft. Visit WCOnline to sign up for an appointment. The Writing Hub also offers writing workshops, writing retreats, writers' rooms, and other writer-focused academic support services.

Writing Hub : Supports undergraduate and graduate student writers through one-on-one writing consultations. Get feedback on any writing project at any stage in the writing process — brainstorming, topic selection, organizing ideas, or polishing a final draft. Visit WCOnline to sign up for an appointment. The Writing Hub also offers writing workshops, writing retreats, writers' rooms, and other writer-focused academic support services.

OASIS Language Arts Tutorial Services (LATS) Program offers free individual (in-person and online) appointments to provide students with invaluable feedback to improve their writing. Additionally, LATS runs workshops that cover topics such as scholarship essays, personal statements, resumes, and cover letters. Program details can be found at oasis.ucsd.edu under LATS , and appointments can be made at ucsandiego.mywconline.com .

OASIS Language Arts Tutorial Services (LATS) Program offers free individual (in-person and online) appointments to provide students with invaluable feedback to improve their writing. Additionally, LATS runs workshops that cover topics such as scholarship essays, personal statements, resumes, and cover letters. Program details can be found at oasis.ucsd.edu under LATS , and appointments can be made at ucsandiego.mywconline.com .

Undergraduate writing programs

Analytical Writing Program

Revelle College Humanities Program

Marshall College Dimensions of Culture Program

Muir College Writing Program

Warren College Writing Program

Roosevelt College Making of the Modern World Program

Sixth College Culture, Art, & Technology (CAT) Program

Seventh College Synthesis Writing Program

Eighth College Critical Community Engagement Program