Student Mail Services

Student Mail Resources

Below are helpful resources and answers to common questions about Student Mail Services. Click on each topic to expand, or follow the links to detailed step-by-step guides.

Step-by-Step Guides

Learn more from our guides in our Knowledge Base Articles (KBAs) in Services and Support.

Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs)

Not yet. Please wait until you receive an official Student Mail email before coming to pick up your package. Carrier delivery notifications only mean your package has arrived at a campus mail facility — it still needs to be processed by our team. Once processed, you’ll get a Student Mail email with pickup details. Remember: 1 Student Mail email = 1 package ready for pickup

Check the Logistics Student Portal . When prompted to log-in, select Student SSO from the dropdown. Enter your tracking number in the search bar to see the latest status. If it shows “Under Research" or "Pending Research", please open a support case and let us know your status so we can assist you further! Be sure to include the following information so we can help you as quickly as possible:

Name on the package

The actual delivery address vs. the address listed on the package (if known)

If you believe your package is lost or misdelivered, please open a support case . Be sure to include the following information so we can help you as quickly as possible:

Name on the package

The actual delivery address vs. the address listed on the package (if known)

Yes! You can have someone pick up your package on your behalf. Just forward them the delivery notification email and have them present it to the Parcel Center staff when picking up the package.

First, double-check that you have the correct combination and review your college’s specific instructions for opening your mailbox.

If the dial isn’t turning or the mailbox appears broken, please submit a FixIt request so the issue can be resolved.

Important Things to Know

Welcome to UC San Diego! Student Mail can begin receiving packages on-campus the Monday of Week 0 of Fall Quarter. If you are moving in later in the year, you can start receiving packages on your move in date.

Important: Packages received before Week 0 or before a move in date, are at risk of being returned or held until housing contracts are finalized.

Moving Off Campus (Mail Forwarding)

Student Mail forwards letter mail and USPS packages to the domestic address on file for 90 days after move-out. A USPS change of address form is not required, however please review your current and permanent mailing address on TritionLink, as these are is the addresses Student Mail will use for forwarding.

If you can not receive mail domestically after move out, we can help support on a case by case basis, please open a support ticket for further help.

Important: Student Mail is unable to forward to international addresses and packages from other carriers (UPS, Amazon, FedEx, DHL, etc.). These will be returned to sender or require a scheduled pickup.

Perishable and Time Sensitive Packages

Student Mail can receive perishable or time-sensitive items such as grocery and meal deliveries (HelloFresh, Factor, Home Chef), 1-800-Flowers, live animals, and urgent medications. These items cannot be delivered directly to your dorm or residence.

While Student Mail does not provide refrigeration upon arrival, you will receive a same-day pickup notification. Student Mail reserves the right to dispose of packages that have perished or spoiled.

One Time Passcodes (OTP) or Signatures

If you're expecting a package that requires a one-time passcode (OTP) or signature, you do not need to do anything on your part. Student Mail is able to sign or void the one-time password to accept the package from the carrier.

Amazon Hub Lockers

Student Mail does not manage or operate the Amazon Hub lockers on campus. To have a package delivered to an Amazon locker, you must select and reserve the locker location in advance.

How to select a pickup location:

During checkout: click “Change delivery or pickup address,” then “See nearby pickup locations.”

During checkout: click “Change delivery or pickup address,” then “See nearby pickup locations.”

To reroute an already shipped package: click “Send to pickup location” in the order details tab.

To reroute an already shipped package: click “Send to pickup location” in the order details tab.

Important: Amazon Hub locker packages must be selected through these processes. Simply typing a locker name into the address field can cause delays, misdeliveries, or returns to Amazon. For any issues with Amazon Hub lockers, please contact Amazon customer support.

View our KBA How to Send an Amazon Order to an Amazon Hub Locker for a step-by-step guide.

On-Demand Delivery Services (DoorDash, Walmart+, Instacart)

Student Mail is unable to receive deliveries from on-demand delivery services such as DoorDash, UberEats, Walmart+, Instacart, etc. For these type of services, please use the building's physical street address as outlined in the Triton Addressing Initiative and coordinate directly with the delivery driver.

Important: This only applies to on-demand delivery services. All other mail and package deliveries should follow your housing community's mailing address format .

Letter mail is delivered to your mailbox daily on business days, and it is your responsibility to check it regularly. You will only receive notifications for certified letters or those with tracking numbers, which will be available for pickup at your Parcel Center.

Letters are only delivered to your mailbox if both the name and box number match the information on file. Otherwise, the mail will be returned to the Student Mail warehouse for further review and may be delayed or returned to the sender.

Depending on your housing community, you may be sharing a mailbox with other residents. Please be considerate when checking your mailbox.

Student Mail does not deliver junk mail (i.e. general solicitation, free samples, coupons, promotional advertising material, etc.) to mailboxes.

Still Need Help?

We’re here for you! If you have further questions, please reach out to us on Services and Support. Our staff will be able to help you 1:1 in a support ticket.

Open Support Ticket