Student Services

Changes to Enrollment

Regaining Status

Regaining F-1/J-1 Status

UC San Diego students who have a terminated or completed SEVIS record are considered to be out of status . There are two ways to regain status: Travel and Re-entry for F-1/J-1 students, or Reinstatement for F-1 students.

If you have already transferred your SEVIS record to another institution and you are ready to return back to UC San Diego, please follow the instructions here .

Option 1: Travel and Re-entry with New Initial I-20/DS-2019

F-1 and J-1 students may request a new I-20 or DS-2019 with a new SEVIS ID from ISEO, then exit and re-enter the U.S. with the new Form I-20 or DS-2019 before returning to UC San Diego.

You will need a new Initial I-20 or DS-2019, if you meet any of the following conditions:

You have taken more than one gap quarters or your leave is MORE than 5 months. The 5 months are calculated starting from the quarter start date of your gap term and ending on the quarter start date of your return term. Your leave term is the academic quarter which you are not enrolled in at UC San Diego.

The 5 months are calculated starting from the quarter start date of your gap term and ending on the quarter start date of your return term.

Your leave term is the academic quarter which you are not enrolled in at UC San Diego.

You reported your Gap Quarters to ISEO AFTER the quarter start date of your gap term. Students are not eligible for reactivation and must request a new I-20 if they submitted their iServices "Leave of Absence from U.S. Reporting Form" to ISEO after the start of the gap term.

Students are not eligible for reactivation and must request a new I-20 if they submitted their iServices "Leave of Absence from U.S. Reporting Form" to ISEO after the start of the gap term.

You have been suspended or academically disqualified . Students who have been suspended or academically disqualified must request a new I-20 or DS-2019 from ISEO before they return to the U.S., regardless of how many gap quarters they took.

Students who have been suspended or academically disqualified must request a new I-20 or DS-2019 from ISEO before they return to the U.S., regardless of how many gap quarters they took.

Your SEVIS record was terminated due to a visa status violation . Students with terminated records must request a new I-20 or DS-2019 from ISEO before they return to the U.S., regardless of how many gap quarters they took.

Students with terminated records must request a new I-20 or DS-2019 from ISEO before they return to the U.S., regardless of how many gap quarters they took.

You are a J-1 student. All J-1 students must request a new DS-2019 from ISEO before they return to the U.S., regardless of how many gap quarters they took.

All J-1 students must request a new DS-2019 from ISEO before they return to the U.S., regardless of how many gap quarters they took.

Students must exit and re-enter the U.S. with their new I-20 or DS-2019 in order to activate the new SEVIS record.

Understand the Impact of a New Initial I-20 or DS-2019:

If you receive a new initial I-20 or DS-2019 with a new SEVIS ID, you will need to pay the I-901 SEVIS Fee again. You will also be required to re-accrue employment benefit "time" before you are eligible for F-1 CPT/OPT or J-1 AT.

F-1 Students: May be eligible for CPT and OPT after completing one academic year (3 quarters) on the new SEVIS ID.

J-1 Students: May be eligible for AT after completing one quarter on the new SEVIS ID.

Step 1: Review your Academic Status

Depending on the length of your absence, your academic level, or termination/completion reason, you may be required to take additional steps to ensure you are eligible to return and re-enroll to UC San Diego. Before moving on to the next step, you must review the following link to check whether this requirement applies to you:

Undergraduates Returning to UC San Diego

Graduate Students Readmission

If you require readmission or additional steps to ensure eligibility to return, you will need one of the following as proof of your eligibility to receive a Form I-20 or DS-2019 from UC San Diego:

UC San Diego notification of eligibility to enroll

Email from academic department confirming readmission or eligibility to enroll

WebReg page showing full-time units

Step 2: Request a New Initial I-20 or DS-2019 from ISEO

Request a new Initial I-20 or DS-2019, preferably at least 3 months before to the start of your return quarter at UC San Diego.

Submit an Initial I-20 Request with New SEVIS ID in iServices : Find the Students Returning to UC San Diego category in the left menu. Select the I-20 Request for Returning F-1 Students . Choose the Initial I-20 Request with New SEVIS ID option. Prepare digital PDF copies of the following documents: Valid passport biographical page (of yourself and dependents if you have any). If absent for 2 academic terms or more, upload ONE of the following documents for proof of readmission : UC San Diego readmission notification Email from academic department WebReg page showing full-time units Upload a PDF copy of your bank statement(s) or financial support letter(s). Your documents must show funding for one academic year (9 months) Submit all of the required eForms. You will receive a confirmation email when your request has been successfully submitted. ISEO has an average processing time of 10 business days. You will be notified via email when your request is complete.

Find the Students Returning to UC San Diego category in the left menu. Select the I-20 Request for Returning F-1 Students . Choose the Initial I-20 Request with New SEVIS ID option.

Select the I-20 Request for Returning F-1 Students .

Choose the Initial I-20 Request with New SEVIS ID option.

Prepare digital PDF copies of the following documents: Valid passport biographical page (of yourself and dependents if you have any). If absent for 2 academic terms or more, upload ONE of the following documents for proof of readmission : UC San Diego readmission notification Email from academic department WebReg page showing full-time units Upload a PDF copy of your bank statement(s) or financial support letter(s). Your documents must show funding for one academic year (9 months)

Valid passport biographical page (of yourself and dependents if you have any).

If absent for 2 academic terms or more, upload ONE of the following documents for proof of readmission : UC San Diego readmission notification Email from academic department WebReg page showing full-time units

UC San Diego readmission notification

Email from academic department

WebReg page showing full-time units

Upload a PDF copy of your bank statement(s) or financial support letter(s). Your documents must show funding for one academic year (9 months)

Submit all of the required eForms. You will receive a confirmation email when your request has been successfully submitted.

ISEO has an average processing time of 10 business days. You will be notified via email when your request is complete.

Submit an Initial DS-2019 Request with New SEVIS ID in iServices : Find the Students Returning to UC San Diego category in the left menu. Select the DS-2019 Request for Returning J-1 Students . Choose the Initial DS-2019 Request with New SEVIS ID option. Prepare digital PDF copies of the following documents: Valid passport biographical page (of yourself and dependents if you have any). If absent for 2 academic terms or more, upload ONE of the following documents for proof of readmission : UC San Diego readmission notification Email from academic department WebReg page showing full-time units Upload a PDF copy of your bank statement(s) or financial support letter(s). Your documents must show funding for t he entire duration of your studies Submit all of the required eForms. You will receive a confirmation email when your request has been successfully submitted. ISEO has an average processing time of 10 business days. You will be notified via email when your request is complete.

Find the Students Returning to UC San Diego category in the left menu. Select the DS-2019 Request for Returning J-1 Students . Choose the Initial DS-2019 Request with New SEVIS ID option.

Select the DS-2019 Request for Returning J-1 Students .

Choose the Initial DS-2019 Request with New SEVIS ID option.

Prepare digital PDF copies of the following documents: Valid passport biographical page (of yourself and dependents if you have any). If absent for 2 academic terms or more, upload ONE of the following documents for proof of readmission : UC San Diego readmission notification Email from academic department WebReg page showing full-time units Upload a PDF copy of your bank statement(s) or financial support letter(s). Your documents must show funding for t he entire duration of your studies

Valid passport biographical page (of yourself and dependents if you have any).

If absent for 2 academic terms or more, upload ONE of the following documents for proof of readmission : UC San Diego readmission notification Email from academic department WebReg page showing full-time units

UC San Diego readmission notification

Email from academic department

WebReg page showing full-time units

Upload a PDF copy of your bank statement(s) or financial support letter(s). Your documents must show funding for t he entire duration of your studies

Submit all of the required eForms. You will receive a confirmation email when your request has been successfully submitted.

ISEO has an average processing time of 10 business days. You will be notified via email when your request is complete.

Step 3: Prepare for your Return to UC San Diego

Pay the I-901 SEVIS Fee:

Pay the I-901 SEVIS Fee

Returning to UC San Diego:

After you receive your new I-20 or DS-2019, prepare for your return to UC San Diego.

Check your visa expiration date : F-1 Students: If you have a valid visa: Confirm with your local U.S. embassy or consulate to ensure that you can use your valid visa to seek entry to the U.S. even if the SEVIS ID does not match the new Initial I-20/DS-2019. If you do not have a valid visa: You need to apply for a new visa before returning to UC San Diego. J-1 Students: You need to apply for a new visa before returning to UC San Diego.

F-1 Students: If you have a valid visa: Confirm with your local U.S. embassy or consulate to ensure that you can use your valid visa to seek entry to the U.S. even if the SEVIS ID does not match the new Initial I-20/DS-2019. If you do not have a valid visa: You need to apply for a new visa before returning to UC San Diego.

If you have a valid visa: Confirm with your local U.S. embassy or consulate to ensure that you can use your valid visa to seek entry to the U.S. even if the SEVIS ID does not match the new Initial I-20/DS-2019.

If you do not have a valid visa: You need to apply for a new visa before returning to UC San Diego.

J-1 Students: You need to apply for a new visa before returning to UC San Diego.

You need to apply for a new visa before returning to UC San Diego.

Check your earliest arrival date: You may enter the U.S. in F-1 or J-1 status only up to 30 days before the program start date on your Initial I-20 or DS-2019.

You may enter the U.S. in F-1 or J-1 status only up to 30 days before the program start date on your Initial I-20 or DS-2019.

Check your travel documents : Make sure that you have the required travel documents for your travel and re-entry to the U.S.

Make sure that you have the required travel documents for your travel and re-entry to the U.S.

Check enrollment requirements: You must be enrolled in full-time units for your quarter of return. See exceptions to full-time enrollment requirements . Returning to UC San Diego in Summer Session: If your I-20 or DS-2019 has been issued with a Summer Session start date, you must be enrolled full-time for the entire Summer Session (unless Summer Session is your final term).

You must be enrolled in full-time units for your quarter of return. See exceptions to full-time enrollment requirements .

Returning to UC San Diego in Summer Session: If your I-20 or DS-2019 has been issued with a Summer Session start date, you must be enrolled full-time for the entire Summer Session (unless Summer Session is your final term).

If your I-20 or DS-2019 has been issued with a Summer Session start date, you must be enrolled full-time for the entire Summer Session (unless Summer Session is your final term).

Update your Program Start Date if you plan to resume in a later term: If your plans change, and you'd like to resume your studies at UC San Diego at a specific later date, then submit the Updated I-20 Request or Updated DS-2019 Request in the Students Returning to UC San Diego category in iServices before the start date on your new Initial I-20 or DS-2019.

If your plans change, and you'd like to resume your studies at UC San Diego at a specific later date, then submit the Updated I-20 Request or Updated DS-2019 Request in the Students Returning to UC San Diego category in iServices before the start date on your new Initial I-20 or DS-2019.

Check-In to Activate your SEVIS Record after Arrival:

If you have an Initial I-20 or DS-2019, you MUST take ALL of the following actions upon your arrival in the U.S.:

Submit the Check-In for SEVIS Activation request in iServices .

Complete the Document iSelfCheck .

Review how to maintain your status .

Failure to submit the Check-In for SEVIS Activation request in iServices can lead to issues with your immigration status.

Understand Impact to Employment Benefits:

If you receive a new Initial I-20 or DS-2019 with a new SEVIS ID, you will need to re-accrue employment benefit "time" before you are eligible for F-1 CPT/OPT or J-1 AT.

F-1 Students: May be eligible for CPT and OPT after completing one academic year (3 quarters) on the new SEVIS ID.

J-1 Students: May be eligible for AT after completing one quarter on the new SEVIS ID.

Option 2: Reinstatement

F-1 students who are currently in the U.S. may be eligible to submit a reinstatement application to the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services and remain in the U.S. during adjudication.

UC San Diego students who are currently out of status may apply for reinstatement to F-1 visa status. J-1 visa holders are not eligible for reinstatement. If you are eligible for reinstatement, the International Services and Engagement Office (ISEO) is here help you with this process.

F-1 Student Eligibility for Reactivation:

You may be eligible for reinstatement if you meet ALL of the following:

Are currently located in the U.S.

Are currently enrolled or intend to enroll for a full-time course load . If you have been suspended or academically disqualified , you are not eligible for reinstatement until you are eligible to enroll again at UCSD.

If you have been suspended or academically disqualified , you are not eligible for reinstatement until you are eligible to enroll again at UCSD.

Can establish that the violation of status resulted from circumstances beyond your control.

Have not engaged in unauthorized employment.

Have not been out of status for more than 5 months. Students who have been out of status for more than 5 months may still be eligible to file for reinstatement but will need to provide sufficient reason for delayed filing.

Students who have been out of status for more than 5 months may still be eligible to file for reinstatement but will need to provide sufficient reason for delayed filing.

Can document sufficient financial resources to pursue a full-time course load.

Do not have a history of repeated status violations.

Are not deportable from the U.S. on any other grounds.

If you meet these criteria, contact ISEO to meet with an international student advisor to discuss your eligibility for F-1 Reinstatement. Students who are eligible to apply for reinstatement to F-1 status must do the following:

Meet with an international student advisor at ISEO to confirm eligibility for Reinstatement.

Request Reinstatement I-20 from ISEO.

Submit Reinstatement application to US Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS).

Wait for USCIS to Review Reinstatement Application.

Receive decision from USCIS (This may take anywhere from 4-10 months).

J-1 Student Eligibility for Reactivation:

Contact ISEO to discuss your options with an International Student Advisor.

Step 1: Request Reinstatement I-20 from ISEO

Submit an F-1 Reinstatement Request in iServices :

Find the Students Returning to UC San Diego category in the left menu. Select the F-1 Reinstatement Request .

Select the F-1 Reinstatement Request .

Prepare a PDF copy of: Financial documents to show funding for the first 12 months of your studies . Your passport biographical page. Your most recent I-94

Financial documents to show funding for the first 12 months of your studies .

Your passport biographical page.

Your most recent I-94

Submit the required eForm. You will receive a confirmation email when your request has been successfully submitted.

ISEO has an average processing time of 10 business days . You will be notified via email when your request is complete.

You MUST submit your Reinstatement application to USCIS within 30 days of receiving your new Reinstatement I-20.

Step 2: Submit Reinstatement Application to USCIS

Gather Required Required Documents for Application:

After requesting your reinstatement I-20 from ISEO, gather the following required materials listed below. Be sure to keep a copy of all of your documents.

Copy of your signed Reinstatement I-20.

Original personal statement (typed, not handwritten) from student. This statement must include: Chronological account of student’s history of education in the U.S., including every school ever attended with all dates of attendance, and detailing every time the student was previously out of status and why and the number of times the student was reinstated in the past. Full explanation of why the student is currently out of status and why being out of status was beyond the student’s control.

This statement must include: Chronological account of student’s history of education in the U.S., including every school ever attended with all dates of attendance, and detailing every time the student was previously out of status and why and the number of times the student was reinstated in the past. Full explanation of why the student is currently out of status and why being out of status was beyond the student’s control.

Chronological account of student’s history of education in the U.S., including every school ever attended with all dates of attendance, and detailing every time the student was previously out of status and why and the number of times the student was reinstated in the past.

Full explanation of why the student is currently out of status and why being out of status was beyond the student’s control.

Official transcripts. One set of official transcripts from all schools in the United States that you have attended. NOTE: Unofficial transcripts will not be accepted.

One set of official transcripts from all schools in the United States that you have attended. NOTE: Unofficial transcripts will not be accepted.

NOTE: Unofficial transcripts will not be accepted.

Financial statement from student or sponsor or sponsorship letter from UC San Diego academic department. Please see the I-20 Funding Requirements webpage for requirements.

Please see the I-20 Funding Requirements webpage for requirements.

Copy of visa stamp page in passport.

Copy of biographical information page in passport. Passport page must include expiration date.

Passport page must include expiration date.

Copy of I-94 form .

Copies of all Form I-20s issued to student from all schools attended.

Submit your Reinstatement Application to USCIS:

Students are able to file for F-1 Reinstatement with U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) by creating a USCIS Online Account and submitting the Form I-539 electronically, uploading electronic copies of applicable documents, and paying fees online. You can find the current filing fee for Form I-539 by visiting USCIS' Fee Schedule page.

ISEO is unable to assist with completion or submission of the Form I-539. Students who require assistance with filing Form I-539 to USCIS should consult with an immigration attorney . Students are responsible for a complete and timely submission of their F-1 Reinstatement Application with USCIS. Failure to submit a complete and timely application may result in a denial or a request for additional information by USCIS.

Reminder: Students MUST submit their Reinstatement application to USCIS within 30 days of receiving their Reinstatement I-20 from ISEO.

I-797 Receipt Notice from USCIS:

After filing Form I-539 online, a receipt number will be generated. Please share this receipt number with ISEO .

In addition, a physical I-797 Receipt Notice confirming submission of your form I-539 to USCIS will be physically mailed to the mailing address indicated within your application.

Step 3: Wait for USCIS to Review Application

While Waiting for Reinstatement Approval

USCIS processing times for I-539 Reinstatement of F-1 Status Applications may vary. On average, applications may take 4 - 10 months to be adjudicated. Check the USCIS Website for up to date processing times.

Expedite requests are reviewed by USCIS on a case-by-case basis and the applicant must meet strict expedite criteria. Review the USCIS policy manual for more information on expedite criteria.

While pending reinstatement:

Travel: It is not in your best interest to travel during this period. Travel outside the U.S. while a reinstatement application is pending may be considered an abandonment of the application. If you need to leave the U.S. while your application is pending, you must meet with an international student advisor prior to travel.

Funding/Employment: Students who do not have F-1 Status are not eligible for employment benefits under the F-1 non-immigrant category. This includes any on-campus employment or off-campus employment.

Changes to Enrollment: If you are unable to continue full-time enrollment, you must meet with an international student advisor prior to dropping below full-time enrollment.

Requests for Evidence: If you receive a Request for Evidence (RFE) or Request for Information (RFI) from USCIS, please contact ISEO immediately so we can assist you.

Schedule a Biometric Services Appointment (if Required)

USCIS may require that you appear for an interview or provide biometrics (fingerprints, photograph, and/or signature) at any time to verify your identity, obtain additional information, and conduct background and security checks, including a check of criminal history records maintained by the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), before making a decision on your application or petition. After USCIS receives your application and ensures it is complete, USCIS will inform you if you need to attend a biometric services appointment.

If an appointment is necessary, the notice will provide you the location of your local or designated USCIS Application Support Center (ASC) and the date and time of your appointment. If you are required to provide biometrics, at your appointment you must sign an oath reaffirming that:

You provided or authorized all information in the application;

You reviewed and understood all of the information contained in, and submitted with, your application; and

All of this information was complete, true, and correct at the time of filing. If you fail to attend your biometric services appointment, USCIS may deny your application.

We recommend that you review your copy of your completed I-539 reinstatement application before you go to your biometric services appointment at a USCIS ASC . At your appointment, USCIS will permit you to complete the application process only if you are able to confirm, under penalty of perjury, that all of the information in your application is complete, true, and correct. If you are not able to make that attestation in good faith at that time, USCIS will require you to return for another appointment.

Review USCIS' Preparing for Your Biometric Services Appointment webpage.

Before visiting any USCIS facility, check the USCIS Office Closings webpage for the current operating status.

Step 4: Receive Decision From USCIS

USCIS processing times for I-539 Reinstatement of F-1 Status Applications may vary. On average, applications may take 4-10 months to be adjudicated. Check the USCIS Website for up to date processing times.

If your Reinstatement Application is Approved:

Once your reinstatement application is approved, you will receive an I-797 Approval Notice from USCIS.

Request an Updated I-20 reflecting your reinstated visa status by following instructions here .

If your Reinstatement Application is Denied:

If your application is denied by USCIS, please contact ISEO to discuss your next steps.

Changes to Enrollment

Academic Major Change

Reduced Course Loads (RCLs)

Program Extension

Degree Level Change

Enrollment Outside UC San Diego

Academic Disqualification and Suspension

Visa Status Violations

Regaining Status