The Flu (Influenza)

Influenza, also referred to as “the flu”, is a common respiratory illness caused by an influenza virus. The flu is contagious and spreads easily from person to person. Every flu season, approximately 20-40 million people in the United States catch the flu. There is no cure for the flu, but it can be prevented by getting a flu vaccine each year. There are medications that may help in certain circumstances, but most people can treat the flu on their own without prescription medications.

The flu usually causes mild to moderate illness, but having certain health conditions puts people at risk for severe illness including life-threatening complications that require hospitalization. Flu symptoms often come on suddenly and can last from a few days to 2 weeks. Symptoms can include:

Fever (>100.4 °F / >38 °C)

Chills or sweats

Muscle or body aches

Nasal congestion

Because the flu can cause severe illness, even in generally healthy people, it is important to monitor symptoms and get medical attention if needed to avoid life-threatening complications. This is especially important for people with underlying health conditions including:

Lung disease (such as asthma, cystic fibrosis, chronic bronchitis, or emphysema)

Chronic kidney disease

Metabolic disorders (such as diabetes)

Blood disorders (such as sickle-cell or severe anemia)

A weakened immune system (from conditions such as HIV/AIDS, cancer/cancer treatment, organ transplant, or corticosteroid therapy)

Certain nervous system disorders or seizure disorders (such as those that cause breathing problems or increase the risk of inhaling oral secretions)

What’s the Difference Between the Flu and a Cold?

It can be difficult to tell the difference between the flu and a cold since many of the symptoms are the same, but they are caused by different viruses. The flu is caused by the influenza virus specifically, while many other types of viruses cause colds. One major difference is that the flu usually causes fever and chills, but adults don’t typically get a fever with a cold. The flu also causes body aches and more severe symptoms than a cold.

Avoiding the Flu

The flu is spread by close contact with infected droplets. These droplets can enter the body by being breathed in, or via a hand that touches the eyes, nose, or mouth after touching infected secretions or a contaminated surface.

The best way to prevent getting the flu is by getting an annual flu vaccine. The chance of getting the flu can be reduced by doing frequent handwashing, avoiding touching the face, and cleaning frequently used surfaces. Getting adequate sleep and exercise, eating healthy meals, reducing stress, and staying hydrated can also help prevent the flu. It is also important to stay away from others who are sick or wear a mask if necessary.

There is no cure for the flu, but mild to moderate symptoms often improve on their own. Antibiotics don’t work against viruses and won’t relieve flu symptoms. Self-care recommendations are aimed at symptom relief and immune support.

Self-care includes:

Get plenty of rest

Drink plenty of fluids (avoid milk/dairy products)

Avoid smoking/vaping

For sore throat, gargle with warm, salty water every 4-6 hours (mix ½ teaspoon of salt or baking soda in 8 ounces of warm water). Throat lozenges can also be used.

For nasal congestion, nasal saline rinses can be used 2-3 times per day to clear the nose. If using over-the-counter medicated nasal spray, usage should be limited to no more than 3 days as longer use can cause rebound congestion.

For sore throat, body aches, headache, or fever, over-the-counter acetaminophen (Tylenol) or ibuprofen (Motrin) can be used. If under age 19, do not take Aspirin (salicylate) or products that contain Aspirin as this can cause Reye’s Syndrome (a rare disorder that causes brain and liver damage).

Antihistamines such as Claritin or Zyrtec and decongestants such as Sudafed may be used for runny nose, nasal congestion, and sneezing.

For cough, over the counter cough medicine (liquid or tablets) containing dextromethorphan such as Robitussin or Delsym may be helpful. Cough drops can also be used.

Avoid using these medications as contraindicated. All package instructions and manufacturer’s dosing recommendations should be followed for dosing and frequency of use for any of these over-the-counter medications.

When to Seek Medical Care

Most flu symptoms do not require a healthcare visit, but sometimes the flu may lead to secondary bacterial infections or worsening of chronic conditions such as asthma, for which prescription medication would be necessary. In certain circumstances, influenza antiviral medications may be a treatment option. Antiviral medications are prescribed by a medical provider and work best when started early, ideally no later than 2 days after flu symptoms begin.

It is important to seek medical attention, especially for those at high risk for complications, if signs or symptoms of serious illness are developing, if symptoms are not improving after 7-10 days, or for any of the following symptoms:

Sore throat that doesn’t improve after 3 days or that is accompanied by fever without other flu symptoms

Sore throat that is accompanied by fever, inability to swallow saliva, swollen glands, or vomiting

Painful swelling of the lymph nodes or glands in the neck

Pain or tenderness around the eyes

Cough with production of a large amount of discolored mucus

Cough accompanied by difficulty breathing, fast breathing, wheezing or fever

Cough that persists more than 2 weeks

Painful breathing, wheezing, or shortness of breath

Severe headache or facial pain not relieved by over-the-counter medications

Severe headache that is accompanied by a change in behavior, skin rash, neck pain, or difficulty walking

Severe fatigue that lasts for more than 3 days or is accompanied by changes in behavior, constant vomiting/diarrhea, stiff neck, severe headache, or difficulty breathing

Fever greater than 100.4 °F (38 °C) for more than 3 days or high fever (>103 °F / 39.4 °C)

Fever with any of the following symptoms: constant vomiting/diarrhea, stiff neck, severe headache, shortness of breath, difficulty breathing, or any unusual symptoms

Severe muscle pain or weakness

Decreased urination

Persistent dizziness or confusion

Acute worsening of chronic medical conditions

This list is not all-inclusive. Please seek medical evaluation for any symptom that is severe or concerning.

Flu vaccines are available at no charge at SHS for those with UC SHIP and in the surrounding community for those without.

Self-schedule an immunization appointment at SHS in MyStudentChart : Menu > Schedule an Appointment > SHS: Influenza/Tdap/HPV/COVID-19 Vaccines.

CDC Influenza (Flu) information

If you are currently sick or injured and need medical advice, call (858) 534-3300 to speak with a registered nurse who can provide guidance. This service is available 24/7 to all students at no cost. You may also message the nursing team during regular hours via MyStudentChart: Menu > Student Health Ask-a-Nurse. We recommend you do this first before coming into Student Health to avoid unnecessary exposure to your illness.

See options for Urgent & After-Hours Care .

Remember to visit the SHS Pharmacy for discounted over-the-counter cold remedies!

Advance Directives

Alcohol and Other Drugs

Breast & Testicular Health

Conjunctivitis (Pink Eye)

Eating Disorders

Emergency Contraception

Gastroesophageal Reflux Disease (GERD)

Gynecologic Cancers (PDF)

Hepatitis A, B and C

Human Papillomavirus (HPV)

Medication Abortion

Methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA)

Molluscum Contagiosum

Painful Periods (Dysmenorrhea)

Pelvic Inflammatory Disease (PID)

Physical Activity

Plant Dermatitis

Polycystic Ovary Syndrome (PCOS)

Pregnancy Testing

Temporomandibular Joint Disorders (TMJ)

Urinary Tract Infections (UTIs)

Vaginal Infections