Student Services

Starting a New Program

Additional Resources

New Undergraduate (Bachelor’s) Students

New Undergraduate (Bachelor’s) Students

The International Services and Engagement Office (ISEO) is here to assist new F‑1 and J‑1 students with immigration matters. But we know there are a lot of things to prepare as you plan for your studies and life at UC San Diego as an undergraduate student! Questions about housing, tuition, booking classes, or other campus services are best directed to the offices that manage those areas. ISEO has put together this page as a resource to connect you with other campus services and support your onboarding at UC San Diego.

Summer Session Visiting Students: if you will only be enrolling with UC San Diego for Summer Session and will not matriculate into a UC San Diego degree program, please visit I SEO's New Summer Session Visiting Page .

ISEO Onboarding Guides to Help You Get Started

Welcome Guide : This guide is filled with tips and information designed to help you navigate through your first steps as a new international student. It includes a helpful checklist to you keep you on track in your journey to UC San Diego.

Surf Check : A surf check is an action done by surfers to survey conditions at a location and get an understanding of what the surf will be like. Each surfer may look for different things; some surfers may be looking for huge waves while some may just be looking for windless classic waves. Just like a surf check, ISEO will be providing the necessary knowledge and experience to help you navigate your way to an exemplary experience at UC San Diego. From what to pack when coming to the United States to the best eateries on campus, Surf Check will cover everything you need to know!

Complete Your Pending Admissions Requirements

Submit your pending Admission requirements and documents by the mandatory deadlines. Failure to complete your Admissions package by the required deadlines can adversely affect your admission offer. Login to your Applicant Portal to review any pending items you need to complete.

For more information, review required documents and deadlines to submit on the Undergraduate Admissions website and their FAQs .

QUESTIONS? If you have questions about your pending Admissions requirements or documents, please contact Undergraduate Admissions by logging into your Applicant Portal and using the messaging feature.

Paying Tuition and Fees

Ensure that you are up to date with tuition due dates and student fees. Review due dates and learn how to pay your bill .

QUESTIONS? If you have questions regarding payments toward your Student Account, please contact Student Financial Solutions .

Health and Immunization Requirements

The University of California is committed to protecting the health and well-being of our students. All incoming students are REQUIRED to obtain certain vaccines and undergo Tuberculosis testing. Failure to meet these requirements by the stated due dates may result in the student receiving registration holds.

To complete your Health Requirements and review important deadlines, review the Student Health Services website .

QUESTIONS? If you have questions regarding your Health Requirements, please contact Student Health Services (SHS) by activating your MyStudentChart account ( see instructions ). Once activated, login to MyStudentChart and use the “Ask-A-Nurse" messaging feature to communicate with the SHS Nursing team.

Required: 12 units per quarter to maintain F-1/J-1 visa status

Per U.S. federal regulations, all F-1 and J-1 international students are required to remain enrolled full-time during the academic school year. At UC San Diego, the academic school year is the Fall, Winter, and Spring quarters. Full-time enrollment is considered 12 units or more, each academic quarter. Ensure that by the end of each quarter's add/drop due date, you are enrolled in at least 12 units!

International students are also required to enroll full-time during their FIRST quarter. If you will be starting your program during the Summer quarter, then you must enroll full-time. Full-time enrollment for the Summer term is defined as:

Summer 1 Program Start Date

Summer Session 1 (6 units minimum) and Summer Session 2 (6 units minimum) OR

Summer Session 3 (6 units minimum)

Summer 2 Program Start Date

Summer Session 2 (6 units minimum) OR

Summer Session 3 (6 units minimum)

Summer start students: If you are unsure which Summer Session your program is beginning in, please check with your academic department for enrollment guidance.

NOTE: F-1 and J-1 students unable to maintain full-time enrollment due to medical, academic, or other reasons should speak to with international student advisor BEFORE dropping below 12 units to avoid any problems with their immigration status.

How to Book Classes

To learn about the undergraduate booking process at UC San Diego, visit the Undergraduate Enrollment webpage . If you have questions about booking classes, review information on the Academic Advising for New Students webpage . ISEO cannot answer questions about booking classes. If you have questions, please review the information at the two links above.

On-campus housing: Review the HDH Undergrad Housing website .

Off-campus housing: Review the Off-Campus Housing website .

Although ISEO cannot answer questions about housing, we have compiled ISEO’s Housing webpage to help you learn about renting in the U.S., find suitable housing providers, and more.

New Student Orientations

REQUIRED - iTriton: Online International Student Orientation

All incoming F-1 and J-1 students must complete ISEO’s mandatory online international student orientation, iTriton. To learn more about iTriton, including how to access it, visit iTriton.ucsd.edu .

Fall 2026 new students: iTriton must be completed by September 1 or your U.S. arrival, whichever is earlier.

REQUIRED – College Orientation and Triton Weeks of Welcome (TWOW)

Get excited for Triton Weeks of Welcome (TWOW)! Your student experience at UC San Diego begins with Triton Weeks of Welcome (TWOW), a campus-wide series of introductory activities, special programs, and signature events at the start of each academic year – designed to engage, inform, and welcome all students to the Triton community.

Required College Orientation: All incoming undergraduate students must attend their College’s mandatory orientation program. For questions about orientation programs and registration due dates, visit your College’s orientation website:

Marshall College

Eleanor Roosevelt College

REQUIRED – SHAPE Training

SHAPE Training through the Office for the Prevention of Harassment and Discrimination (OPHD) is an online program that introduces you to our student community and your role in maintaining a welcoming campus environment. You will receive an email to your UCSD inbox once you have been assigned the training. Students who do not complete the training may receive a registration hold on their account. Learn more, including due dates for completion, by visiting the SHAPE Training website .

HIGHLY RECOMMENDED – ISEO's iOrientation Events

ISEO is excited to meet you! ISEO’s iOrientation will take place in the week(s) leading up to the start of the school year, and is your chance to review the content presented in your iTriton Online Orientation. iOrientation is open to ALL new international students, and it is free of cost. For more information, visit iOrientation.ucsd.edu .

Transportation at UC San Diego

Banking and Personal Finance

Cell Phone Service

Major U.S. cell phone service providers include Verizon Wireless , T-Mobile , AT&T , and Sprint . Other student-focused providers include CampusSIMs and StudentSIMs .

Family Resources

Campus Directory and Map

Once you arrive to campus, familiarize yourself with your new home! Visit Maps.ucsd.edu to search for campus locations, classrooms, college and department advising, dining, and more!

CONTACT INFORMATION

General Campus Resources

Transcripts & Admissions Letters (Undergraduate Students)

Office of Admissions

https://admissions.ucsd.edu/contact/

Transcripts & Admissions Letters (Graduate Students)

Graduate Admissions

https://grad.ucsd.edu/admissions/admitted-students/index.html

Immunization and Health Requirements

Student Health Services

https://studenthealth.ucsd.edu/resources/health-requirements/index.html

Health Insurance

UCSD Student Health Insurance (SHIP)

https://studenthealth.ucsd.edu/resources/health-requirements/index.html

Paying Tuition & Fees

Student Financial Solutions (Student Billing Office)

https://students.ucsd.edu/finances/billing-payment/index.html

Student Financial Solutions (Campus Card Office)

https://sfs.ucsd.edu/campus-cards/index.html

International Student Orientation

International Services and Engagement Office (ISEO)

https://iorientation.ucsd.edu

Move-In/On Campus Housing

Housing, Dining & Hospitality

https://hdh.ucsd.edu/

Academic Advising & Classes

Enrolling in Classes/Using WebReg

Undergraduate College (Undergraduate Students) Graduate Coordinators & Departments (Graduate Students)

Undergraduate College (Undergraduate Students)

Graduate Coordinators & Departments (Graduate Students)

https://students.ucsd.edu/academics/enroll/

Academic Advising (Undergraduate Students)

Undergraduate College (Undergraduate Students)

https://students.ucsd.edu/academics/advising/

Academic Advising for Graduate Students (Graduate Students)

Graduate Coordinators & Departments (Graduate Students)

Contact home department

Books & School Supplies

UC San Diego Bookstore

https://ucsandiegobookstore.com/

Taking Classes in the Summer

https://students.ucsd.edu/academics/advising/

Immigration Resources

F-1/J-1 Status and My Immigration Documents

International Services and Engagement Office (ISEO)

https://iseo.ucsd.edu

Traveling to Mexico/ General Travel Guidelines

International Services and Engagement Office (ISEO)

https://iTravel.ucsd.edu

Working On/Off-Campus

International Services and Engagement Office (ISEO)

https://iEmployment.ucsd.edu

RETURN TO iNEWSTUDENTS HOMEPAGE

Additional Resources

New Undergraduate (Bachelor’s) Students

New Graduate (Master’s and PhD) Students

New Exchange (Non-Degree) Students

New Summer Session Visiting Students

Summer Session Visiting Program for Alumni

Sponsored Students

Prospective Students