Admitted Student Questions

Admitted Student Questions

I just accepted the offer of admission, what do I do next?

Please see the Admitted Student page for your next steps.

Do I need to submit a Course-by-course Evaluation?

Beginning with the Fall 2023 admissions cycle, admitted students who have earned degree(s) from  institution(s) outside of the U.S. are required to submit a Course-by-Course Evaluation to have their admission finalized. Do not send your official materials directly to UC San Diego. They must be uploaded to your Course-by-Course company of choice directly for further evaluation. Please select one of the following companies to complete your course-by-course evaluation:

WES Course-by-Course ICAP evaluation

TEC Course-by-Course evaluation

When will I receive my financial aid package?

For questions on financial aid, please contact the department you were admitted to.

My admit status is "Provisional." What does that mean?

“Provisional” indicates that there are documents or requirements that are still pending in order to complete the admission process. You are officially admitted and can register for your first quarter classes.  However, failure to provide the required documentation will result in a hold on future registration. Please follow all instructions detailed in your applicant status portal in order to finalize your admission to UC San Diego.

I have been offered admission to UC San Diego. When is the deadline to submit my decision?

Decision deadlines may vary by department or program. Below you will find decision guidelines:

Fall Quarter: For applicants admitted before March 25, the Graduate Intent to Register decision is due by April 15th. Applicants admitted after March 25th must submit the decision within three weeks of the date printed on the Certificate of Admission.

Winter, Spring and Summer Quarters: The Graduate Intent to Register is due within three weeks of the date printed on the Certificate of Admission

Can I extend the deadline for my admission decision?

Contact the department to which you applied to request an extension.

Does UC San Diego permit admitted students to defer?

Applicants who are admitted but are unable to register for the quarter to which they were admitted may request to defer admission to the following year or another quarter within the same academic year. This request must be made no later than the first day of instruction of the term to which the applicant was admitted. Please note that department-specific deadlines may vary. The department must pre-approve the deferral request. A deferral is not a guarantee of admission for a later term. The deferred application may be automatically admitted or may be considered along with the next year's applicant pool. Please connect with your academic program to ensure you understand their program-specific deferral policies. Applicants who receive approval to defer their admission must submit official transcripts for any academic work taken from the time the original application was submitted.  No application fee for the deferred application will be required. Deferred applicants may not defer for more than one academic year.

Department contact information can be obtained on our website.

Does UC San Diego permit admitted students to decline even after accepting admission?

Yes, you may decline after accepting admission.  The application site will not allow you to change your decision from “Accept” to “Decline”, so you must contact your department directly to inform them of the change in your decision.

Does UC San Diego hold a visit day for admitted Graduate Students?

The Graduate Education and Postdoctoral Affairs does not hold a visit day for all admits, but many departments do. We recommend reaching out to your department directly about visit days. Department contact information is listed on our website .

Non Discrimination Statement : In accordance with applicable Federal and State law and University policy, the University of California does not discriminate, or grant preferences, on the basis of race, color, national origin, religion, sex, disability, and/or other protected categories. More information about Proposition 209 can be found here . More information about the University of California Anti-Discrimination Policy can be found here.

General Application Questions

Application Fee Questions

Funding Questions

Test and Scores Questions

Letters of Recommendation Questions

Transcripts Questions

Gender Identity, Sexual Orientation, Ethnicity Questions

International Applicant Questions

Joint Doctoral Program (JDP) Applicant Questions

Undocumented Student Questions

Admitted Student Questions