Student Services

Changing Visa Status

Change to J-1 Status

Changing to J-1 Student Status

If you hold a valid non-immigrant visa status and your intent is to become a full-time student at UC San Diego, you may apply to change your visa status to an J-1 student. Please ensure you are fully aware of any requirements and additional considerations related to a change to J-1 status: F vs. J Visa Options

The following information is provided as a guideline to change to J-1 Student Status. If you are considering changing your status, please make an appointment to see an international student advisor so that the timeline and documents can be reviewed.

Option 1: Apply for J-1 Visa Outside the U.S.

Request a DS-2019 from ISEO

To apply for an J-1 visa outside of the U.S., you must obtain a Form DS-2019 from UC San Diego. You must first m eet with an International Student Advisor.

Submit a Change of Status DS-2019 Request in iServices :

Find the Verification and Support Services c ategory in the left menu. Select the Change of Status DS-2019 Request.

Select the Change of Status DS-2019 Request.

Prepare a PDF copy of: Your passport biographical page. Your I-94. Bank statement(s) or financial support letter(s) to show funding for entire duration of your program .

Your passport biographical page.

Bank statement(s) or financial support letter(s) to show funding for entire duration of your program .

Submit all of the required eForms. You will receive a confirmation email when your request has been successfully submitted.

ISEO has an average processing time of 10 business days . You will be notified via email when your request is complete.

Apply for J-1 Visa Outside of the U.S.

After you have received your Change of Status DS-2019 from ISEO, schedule a visa appointment with a U.S. embassy or consulate outside of the U.S. You will need to interview with consular officer at U.S. embassy or consulate outside of the U.S. You may be asked to provide proof that you are a bona fide non-immigrant, with strong ties to your home country and no intention of immigrating to the U.S.

After you receive your J-1 visa and re-enter the U.S. to enroll as a full-time student at UC San Diego, obtain your I-94 from the CBP website and complete the Document Self-Check .

You are required to complete the iTriton Online Training by the end of your first quarter in J-1 status.

Check-In for DS-2019 Activation

Within 10 days of arrival, inform ISEO that you have successfully entered the U.S. in J-1 Status by taking the following steps:

Generate your Form I-94 from the CBP website

Submit the Check-In Request in iServices in order for ISEO to activate your F-1 status in SEVIS.

Maintenance of Status and Impacts on Residency Status

J-1 Federal Rules and Regulations:

As a J-1 Student, you will be subject to federal rules and regulations. It is important that you maintain your J-1 status by following these rules. To learn about your status, you are required to complete the iTriton Online Training by the end of your first quarter in J-1 status. Follow directions on the iTriton Online Training Page to receive access. If you have visa related inquiries, connect with ISEO .

Tuition and Residency Status:

Upon arrival to the U.S. in J-1 Status, ISEO will report your new status to the Residence Deputy at UC San Diego. The Residence Deputy determines your residency status for tuition purposes. Students who change status to J-1 may experience a change in residency status and tuition fees. For more information, please visit the Residence Deputy's Website .

Option 2: Apply with USCIS while Remaining Inside the U.S.

In order to change your status to J-1 student status while remaining in the U.S., you must submit an application to U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS). This process may take 3-6 months or longer. ISEO recommends that you start this process at least 6 months before your current status expires.

USCIS is now requiring all nonimmigrants to maintain a valid non-immigrant status up until 30 days before the requested start date on the Form DS-2019. ISEO recommends that students consult with an experienced immigration attorney with questions about procedures and maintenance of status during the pendency of a change of status application.

Students changing from B-2 or F-2 status to J-1 MUST receive approval before the first day of the admitted quarter. Failure to receive J-1 approval may delay your admission or prevent your enrollment at UC San Diego.

Individuals requesting a change of status while remaining in the U.S. must satisfy ALL of the following criteria:

Your current I-94 status is valid.

Your primary purpose for changing status in the U.S. must be to become a full-time student at UC San Diego.

For prior J visa holders only: If you have ever been in J Exchange Visitor status, and are subject to the two-year home residency requirement , you are eligible to apply for a change of status in the U.S. only if you have fulfilled the requirement or have obtained a waiver and can provide a copy of the waiver.

Request a DS-2019 from ISEO

You must first m eet with an International Student Advisor. Then you must obtain a Form DS-2019 from UC San Diego.

Submit a Change of Status DS-2019 Request in iServices :

Find the Verification and Support Services c ategory in the left menu. Select the Change of Status DS-2019 Request.

Select the Change of Status DS-2019 Request.

Prepare a PDF copy of: Your passport biographical page. Your I-94. Bank statement(s) or financial support letter(s) to show funding for entire duration of your program .

Your passport biographical page.

Bank statement(s) or financial support letter(s) to show funding for entire duration of your program .

Submit all of the required eForms. You will receive a confirmation email when your request has been successfully submitted.

ISEO has an average processing time of 10 business days . You will be notified via email when your request is complete.

Submit Change of Status Application to USCIS

Required documents for Change of Status Application:

Form I-539 (available on the USCIS website ).

Personal letter (typed) explaining why you want to change your status. Include information about why you entered the U.S. in your current status, why and how your intentions changed once in the U.S., and any other relevant information. Since F-1 is a nonimmigrant status, it is advisable that you include information relating to your plans to return home after completing your studies, including any ties to your home country.

Copy of your change of status DS-2019 .

Proof of admission to UC San Diego or, if current UC San Diego student, copy of your unofficial transcript or academic history from TritonLink.

I-539 Filing Fee of U.S. $370*. Fee can be paid by personal check, cashier’s check or money order made payable to "U.S. Department of Homeland Security". Alternatively, it can be paid by credit card using Form G-1450 . *UPDATE AS OF September 29, 2020: USCIS Fee Increase Enjoined (prohibited) as of September 29, 2020. This means all filing fees and procedural changes which were due to take effect on Friday, October 2, 2020 are suspended until further notice. USCIS fees for the I-539 remain at $370 until further notice. Biometric Services Fee remains at $85 until further notice.

*UPDATE AS OF September 29, 2020: USCIS Fee Increase Enjoined (prohibited) as of September 29, 2020. This means all filing fees and procedural changes which were due to take effect on Friday, October 2, 2020 are suspended until further notice. USCIS fees for the I-539 remain at $370 until further notice. Biometric Services Fee remains at $85 until further notice.

Biometric Services Fee of U.S. $85*. This fee is required for each individual included on the I-539A. After USCIS receives the I-539 application, USCIS will notify you about when and where to go for biometrics services. Fee can be paid by personal check, cashier’s check or money order made payable to "US Department of Homeland Security". Alternatively, it can be paid by credit card using Form G-1450 . *UPDATE AS OF September 29, 2020: USCIS Fee Increase Enjoined (prohibited) as of September 29, 2020. This means all filing fees and procedural changes which were due to take effect on Friday, October 2, 2020 are suspended until further notice. USCIS fees for the I-539 remain at $370 until further notice. Biometric Services Fee remains at $85 until further notice.

*UPDATE AS OF September 29, 2020: USCIS Fee Increase Enjoined (prohibited) as of September 29, 2020. This means all filing fees and procedural changes which were due to take effect on Friday, October 2, 2020 are suspended until further notice. USCIS fees for the I-539 remain at $370 until further notice. Biometric Services Fee remains at $85 until further notice.

Receipt of payment of SEVIS fee. After receiving DS-2019 from ISEO, you will have your SEVIS number. You will need to pay the SEVIS fee to receive the receipt.

Copy of I-94 or I-797 approval notice showing current status . For electronic versions of the I-94, go to the CBP website .

Copy of passport bio page (s) that includes picture and expiration date.

Copy of visa page in passport (not applicable if Canadian citizen).

Copy of bank statement and financial sponsorship letter in English from financial sponsor. Include conversion to U.S. dollars from home currency (available at www.xe.com ). USCIS requires that sponsorship show sufficient funds to cover expenses for the entire duration of your program of study on the DS-2019. See the budget estimates for both undergraduate and graduate students (as well as dependents) on our Funding Requirements page . If bank statements are not in student’s name, provide a letter from the sponsor specifying that he/she will be providing all financial support to the student.

Include conversion to U.S. dollars from home currency (available at www.xe.com ).

USCIS requires that sponsorship show sufficient funds to cover expenses for the entire duration of your program of study on the DS-2019. See the budget estimates for both undergraduate and graduate students (as well as dependents) on our Funding Requirements page .

If bank statements are not in student’s name, provide a letter from the sponsor specifying that he/she will be providing all financial support to the student.

Copy of primary visa holder’s immigration documents, including passport bio page, visa, approval notice and/or I-94 . Also, provide evidence that primary visa holder is maintaining status (employment letter, letter from business accountant, etc.).

Mail Your Application to USCIS:

Application packets sent via the United States Postal Service including USPS Express Mail, Priority Mail, or Certified Mail, should be sent to the USCIS Dallas Lockbox facility:

USCIS P.O. Box 660166 Dallas, TX 75266

Do not use the P.O. Box address listed above if you are sending your package via express mail/courier services, such as FedEx and UPS. Express mailings require a physical street address. Send your package via FedEx or UPS to:

USCIS ATTN: I-539 2501 S. State Highway 121 Business Suite 400 Lewisville, TX 75067

Additional Resources:

U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS): How do I change to another nonimmigrant status?

Department of Homeland Security (DHS): Study in the States - Change of Status .

Expedite Criteria: Expedite requests are reviewed by USCIS on a case-by-case basis and the applicant must meet strict expedite criteria. Review the USCIS policy manual for more information on expedite criteria.

Biometric Services Appointment (if Required)

USCIS may require that you appear for an interview or provide biometrics (fingerprints, photograph, and/or signature) at any time to verify your identity, obtain additional information, and conduct background and security checks, including a check of criminal history records maintained by the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), before making a decision on your application or petition. After USCIS receives your application and ensures it is complete, USCIS will inform you in writing (via regular mail) if you need to attend a biometric services appointment.

If an appointment is necessary, the notice will provide you the location of your local or designated USCIS Application Support Center (ASC) and the date and time of your appointment. If you are required to provide biometrics, at your appointment you must sign an oath reaffirming that:

You provided or authorized all information in the application;

You reviewed and understood all of the information contained in, and submitted with, your application; and

All of this information was complete, true, and correct at the time of filing. If you fail to attend your biometric services appointment, USCIS may deny your application.

We recommend that you review your copy of your completed application before you go to your biometric services appointment at a USCIS ASC . At your appointment, USCIS will permit you to complete the application process only if you are able to confirm, under penalty of perjury, that all of the information in your application is complete, true, and correct. If you are not able to make that attestation in good faith at that time, USCIS will require you to return for another appointment.

Receive USCIS Decision

When Your Change of Status is Approved:

Make a copy and submit it to ISEO and UC San Diego Residency Deputy in the Registrar’s Office.

You are required to report your approval within 10 days of receiving the notice. To report your approval, s ubmit the Check-In Request in iServices in order for ISEO to activate your J-1 status in SEVIS. To receive an Updated Form DS-2019 reflecting religiosity to enroll in J-1 Status, submit an Updated DS-2019 Request in iServices.

Traveling Outside the U.S. after Change of Status Approval:

Changing your status to J-1 while in the U.S. does not include an J-1 visa for re-entry into the U.S. If you travel outside of the U.S. after your change of status is approved, you will need to obtain an J-1 visa stamp from an American Embassy or Consulate abroad (Canadian citizens are exempt).

Consult with an International Student Advisor to discuss your travel plans prior to leaving the U.S.

Visit our Visa Application page for more information.

Changing Visa Status

Change to F-1 Status

Change to J-1 Status

Change to Other Status or Permanent Residency