Vaginal Infections

Vaginal Infections

Vaginal infections are very common, accounting for millions of healthcare visits annually, and are caused by various infectious organisms such as bacteria, yeast, and parasites. Changes in the vaginal microbiome (such as an overgrowth of yeast or bacteria), sexual activity, hygiene practices (such as douching or using scented cleansing products), and having a weakened immune system can precipitate vaginal infections.

The main types of vaginal infections include:

Yeast Infections – caused by the fungus Candidiasis; characterized by thick white, curd-like discharge with moderate to severe itching, irritation, and burning along with swelling and soreness of the vagina and/or vulva.

Bacterial Vaginosis (BV) – caused by an imbalance in the normal vaginal flora; characterized by a thin, grey-white discharge with a fishy odor which often worsens after sex or during menses.

Sexually Transmitted Infections (STIs) – Gonorrhea and chlamydia are caused by bacteria and, while often asymptomatic, can cause greenish-white discharge, irritation, and itching. Trichomoniasis, caused by a parasite, is characterized by a profuse, greenish-yellow, frothy discharge, irritation, and itching.

Imbalance in the Vaginal Microbiome – an overgrowth of yeast or bacteria which disrupts the normal, natural balance in the vagina which leads to infection.

Sexual Activity – sexually active people are more prone to vaginal infections; however, people who’ve never had sex before can also be affected.

Hygiene Practices – Wearing tight-fitting clothing, douching, and using certain hygiene products can disrupt the vaginal pH, increasing the risk of infections.

Weakened Immune System – conditions like diabetes, HIV, or medication-induced immunosuppression can increase susceptibility to yeast infections.

Treatment of vaginal infections generally requires evaluation by a medical provider. While antifungal medications such as vaginal creams and suppositories can be obtained for over-the-counter treatment of vaginal yeast infections, prescription anti-fungal medications, antibiotics, and antiparasitic medications must be obtained from a healthcare provider.

Many people who experience a vaginal infection will have repeated or persistent symptoms despite treatment. This may require extended durations of treatment or suppressive medications to prevent reinfection. While this is not fully understood, it may be due to the protective biofilm produced by bacteria or the imbalance in the vaginal microbiomes. It is important to follow all healthcare provider recommendations for treatment and follow up.

Preventing Vaginal Infections

Maintain good hygiene by avoiding douching and using unscented hygiene products.

Avoid excess moisture in the vaginal area; change out of wet/damp clothing and bathing suits as soon as possible. Wear loose, breathable clothing.

Practice safe sex; use condoms and barrier methods.

Centers for Disease Control – About Bacterial Vaginosis (BV)

Centers for Disease Control – Candidiasis Basics

Centers for Disease Control – About Trichomoniasis

Bedsider – Sexual Health & Wellness > Periods & Vaginal Health

If you are currently sick or injured and need medical advice, call (858) 534-3300 to speak with a registered nurse who can provide guidance. This service is available 24/7 to all students at no cost. You may also message the nursing team during regular hours via MyStudentChart: Menu > Student Health Ask-a-Nurse.

Advance Directives

Alcohol and Other Drugs

Breast & Testicular Health

Conjunctivitis (Pink Eye)

Eating Disorders

Emergency Contraception

Gastroesophageal Reflux Disease (GERD)

Gynecologic Cancers (PDF)

Hepatitis A, B and C

Human Papillomavirus (HPV)

Medication Abortion

Methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA)

Molluscum Contagiosum

Painful Periods (Dysmenorrhea)

Pelvic Inflammatory Disease (PID)

Physical Activity

Plant Dermatitis

Polycystic Ovary Syndrome (PCOS)

Pregnancy Testing

Temporomandibular Joint Disorders (TMJ)

Urinary Tract Infections (UTIs)

Vaginal Infections