Off-Campus Housing

Landlord, Tenant, and Roommate Responsibilities

Landlord, Tenant, and Roommate Responsibilities

Learn about your responsibilities as a tenant and the responsibilities of your landlord and any roommate(s).

Your landlord is responsible for:

Effective waterproofing and weather protection of roof and exterior walls, including unbroken windows and doors

Keeping plumbing or gas facilities in good working order

A water supply capable of producing hot and cold running water to appropriate fixtures and connected to a sewage disposal system

Maintaining heating facilities in good working order

Keeping electrical lighting and wiring in good working order

Sanitary building and grounds free from debris, filth, rodents, cockroaches, etc.

Adequate garbage receptacles

Keeping floors, stairways, and railings in good repair

Providing reasonable notice (usually 24 hours) to enter your apartment, unless there is an emergency

Repairs to property:

If you need to request a repair from your landlord or property manager, write a signed, dated memo or formal letter, and keep a copy for your records.

Your landlord has a reasonable time to correct the problem (reasonable response time will differ depending on the nature of the repair).

If your landlord neglects or refuses to make the repair within a reasonable time, you have a legal right to get the repair done and deduct the cost from the cost of your rent. This procedure may be used twice in any 12-month period. The cost of the repair must not exceed one month's rent.

If your own efforts to get repairs are not effective, try contacting the Building Inspection Department of your city. If you've contacted the Building Inspection Department and your landlord still refuses or neglects to make repairs, you have the right to withhold rent payments. But be careful: the seriousness and duration of the violation are relevant factors. For example, a leaking roof during a rainy season would be considered a violation, but a few ants after the rain would not.

If you've contacted the Building Inspection Department and your landlord still refuses or neglects to make repairs, you have the right to withhold rent payments. But be careful: the seriousness and duration of the violation are relevant factors. For example, a leaking roof during a rainy season would be considered a violation, but a few ants after the rain would not.

A tenant is responsible for:

Paying rent on time

Keeping the premises clean and undamaged

Disposing of garbage and trash properly (unless the landlord has agreed to do this)

Using all electrical, gas, and plumbing fixtures properly and keeping them as clean as their condition permits

Keeping any person you've permitted on the premises from willfully damaging the premises or the facilities

Using each room only for its intended purpose

Informing the landlord of all roommate changes

To make sure your experience as a tenant is as enjoyable as possible:

Be respectful of your landlord so that conflicts are easily resolved. If you are going to be late paying your rent, contact your landlord, explain the situation, and provide a date when you can pay.

Obey the laws of your neighborhood, apartment complex, or homeowner's association.

Keep the peace with your neighbors. Excessive noise is a valid reason for eviction.

Your roommate(s)

You and your roommate(s) should:

Be careful about sharing expenses for things like refrigerators or furniture. (What will happen when one or more roommates move out?)

Decide how monthly bills (utilities, rent, etc.) will be divided and who is responsible for making sure the bill is paid. Keep track of who paid deposits for different utilities.

Discuss the division of household duties. A cleaning schedule (dividing chores daily or weekly) is an effective way to do this.

Talk about groceries and sharing food. Often, roommates will agree that everyone is responsible for their own grocery shopping, and food is generally not shared.

Sign a roommate agreement clarifying responsibilities and setting ground rules for your home.