PLANNING FOR SUMMER SESSION

RECEIVED AN ADMISSION OFFER?

Your College Financing Plan (if applicable) outlines your estimated financial aid, scholarships, and more!

The Financial Aid & Scholarships Office is serving students in-person, virtually and by phone. Please review our service hours and upcoming closures.

FINANCIAL AID IMPACTS FROM CAPITOL HILL

Important Notice

Continuing student enrollment/booking for Fall Quarter 2026 is being moved to mid-July 2026 to allow for the implementation of the new Triton Student System. Read the Campus Notice for more information.

Check out some of our most popular and helpful links below as a starting point. This page will help connect you to resources that will help you navigate financial aid applications, scholarships, forms, estimated costs, and more.

Learn about the important dates and information that you'll need to know throughout the application process.

Undergraduate Students

Find details on applying for aid, estimated undergraduate cost of attendance, how you receive your financial aid and more.

Information for Undergraduates

Graduate Students

Access information on applying for aid, estimated cost of attendance by graduate program, how your aid is calculated, how you receive funds and more.

Details for Graduate Students

Stay up to date with important announcements and dates

Cal Fresh/SNAP: for the latest information and assistance options for those impacted by the federal SNAP program visit the UC San Diego HUB Basic Needs Center.

UC San Diego HUB Basic Needs Center

Cal Grant eligible but no Cal Grant on the Financial Aid and Scholarships (FAS) student portal?

Log into Webgrants 4 Students to confirm or change your school of attendance to UC San Diego (school code 001317). Be sure to complete any verifications or forms that are outstanding to ensure timely disbursement of your grant.

WebGrants 4 Students

Middle Class Scholarships

Initial awarding of Middle Class Scholarship (MCS) is almost complete. The California Student Aid Commission (CSAC) requires that we continuously monitor awards for changes to eligibility. Adjustments will be made based on changes to enrollment, cost of attendance or any other factor impacting award calculation. Still missing your award? Please reach out starting in mid-February if your funds are not yet awarded.

Adding or Dropping units? This can impact your financial aid and your bill

Just a reminder, adjusting your enrollment this can impact your financial aid on TritonPay,  please allow time for your bill to reflect any updates.

Office - Closed Memorial Day Holiday

Office Closed - Juneteenth Holiday

Summer Session I

UC San Diego is committed to using the Principles & Standards of the College Cost Transparency Initiative in its student financial aid offer.