International Students

English Language Proficiency

English Language Proficiency

Demonstrating Proficiency

Demonstrated proficiency in the English language is required for all international applicants. International applicants may be exempt from this requirement if they have earned or will be earning a bachelor's, master's, or doctoral degree with grades of B (3.0) or better from either:

A regionally accredited U.S. college or university where English is the sole language of instruction, or

A foreign college or university which provides instruction solely in English. You may verify whether your institution meets this requirement by looking up your institution in the IAU World Higher Education Database (WHED) . If English is not the sole language of instruction listed, if no language is listed at all, or if the institution does not appear on the WHED website, you are required to submit English proficiency exam scores. No other documentation (e.g. letters, language certificates, school websites) may be used in place of WHED as a means to obtain an exemption from the English proficiency requirement.

Please note: International graduate students must be certified as having requisite language skills before they can serve as teaching assistants (TAs; UC San Diego Division of Graduate Education and Postdoctoral Affairs policy in compliance with Assembly Concurrent Resolution No. 41). More information is below.

UC San Diego accepts the following English language proficiency exams listed below. Please check your academic program's specific English language proficiency score requirements, as some programs may have higher minimum scores for admission.

Please note: UC San Diego has no preference on the English language proficiency exam that is taken and submitted.

Duolingo English Test (DET)

Duolingo English Test (DET)

Effective for Fall 2026 Admissions Cycle

UC San Diego accepts the Duolingo English Test (DET) as one of the approved options to meet the English language proficiency requirement for graduate admission. International applicants may submit DET scores in place of TOEFL or IELTS.

Minimum Total Score : 120 (out of 160)

Score Validity : Scores are valid for two years from the test date

Official Score Submission : Scores must be sent electronically to UC San Diego Graduate Admissions directly from Duolingo.

To send your Duolingo English Test scores to UC San Diego Graduate Admissions, follow these steps:

Log in at englishtest.duolingo.com

Go to "My Tests" and click "Share Score" on your certified result

Select "university" and search for "UC San Diego"

Check the box next to UCSD in the dropdown menu

Please check your academic program's specific English language proficiency score requirements, as some programs may have higher minimum scores for admission.

For more information or to register, visit the Duolingo English Test website .

Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL)

Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL)

The Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL) -- When ordering your TOEFL score reports, use UCSD's institution code 4836. TOEFL score reports are sent to the university four to six weeks after the test is administered. ETS will report scores no more than 2 years after the test date . At this time, we are unable to accept TOEFL MyBest Scores offered through ETS.

Arrangements for taking the TOEFL may be made through the nearest United States Embassy or the Educational Testing Service. Consult the TOEFL website for further information.

The university-wide minimum TOEFL score required for consideration for graduate admission is 85 for the internet based test (iBT) . Please check your academic program's specific English language proficiency score requirements, as some programs may have higher minimum scores for admission. Applicants with marginal scores on the TOEFL exam may be required to pass an English proficiency test upon arrival at UCSD or enroll in an English course until the required proficiency is attained.

International English Language Testing System (IELTS)

International English Language Testing System (IELTS)

IELTS is jointly managed by the British Council, IDP: IELTS Australia, and the University of Cambridge ESOL Examinations. Arrangements for taking the IELTS Academic Training exam may be made through the website .

The university-wide minimum IELTS Academic Training exam score required for consideration for graduate admission is Band Score 7 . Please check your academic program's specific English language proficiency score requirements, as some programs may have higher minimum scores for admission. Applicants with marginal scores on the IELTS exam may be required to pass an English proficiency test upon arrival at UCSD or enroll in an English course until the required proficiency is attained.

To submit official test scores to UC San Diego Graduate Education and Postdoctoral Affairs (GEPA), applicants must contact the IELTS test center where they took the test to request their official test results to be sent to the address below. UC San Diego does not accept unofficial copies of IELTS Test Report Forms from students. An institution code is not required.

UC San Diego Graduate Admissions is registered to receive IELTS scores using the IELTS Results Service E-Delivery. Please type in the exact information below to send your scores to our office using IELTS E-Delivery on the IELTS website:

University of California, San Diego Graduate Admissions 9500 Gilman Drive #0003 La Jolla, CA 92093-0003

The Pearson Test of English Academic (PTE Academic)

The Pearson Test of English Academic (PTE Academic)

PTE Academic is a computer-based academic English language test benchmarked to the Common European Framework of Reference for Languages (CEF). For registration and test information consult the PTE website .

The minimum PTE Academic score required for graduate admission is Overall Score: 65 . Please check your academic program's specific English language proficiency score requirements, as some programs may have higher minimum scores for admission.

English Language Requirement for International Teaching Assistants (TA)

In order to serve as a Teaching Assistant for the first time at UCSD, international graduate students whose first language is not English must be certified as having the requisite English language oral communication skills (regardless of year in the program). International graduate students who are appointed as a Teaching Assistant without being certified are subject to having their TA appointment rescinded by the hiring unit or the Division of Graduate Education and Postdoctoral Affairs. This policy does not apply to students who serve as Teaching Assistants in courses conducted in a language other than English .

Please visit this website for detailed information around language proficiency requirements and scores needed to serve as a teaching assistant.

Non Discrimination Statement : In accordance with applicable Federal and State law and University policy, the University of California does not discriminate, or grant preferences, on the basis of race, color, national origin, religion, sex, disability, and/or other protected categories. More information about Proposition 209 can be found here . More information about the University of California Anti-Discrimination Policy can be found here.

International Students

Exam Requirements

English Language Proficiency

Visa Information