Enrolling in Classes

Undergraduate Enrollment

How to Wait-List a Class

How to Wait-List a Class

If you want to enroll in a class that is full, you can put yourself on a wait list.

About wait-listed classes

Wait listing is not available during the first pass of enrollment to encourage students to enroll in required courses.

Classes can be wait-listed until 4:30 p.m. on Thursday of the 2nd full week of classes. See deadlines for the academic year.

As of the second pass you can be enrolled in and wait-listed for a total of 19.5 units.

After the quarter begins, you can be enrolled in and wait-listed for a total of 22 units.

If you don't meet class requirements when you attempt to move from the wait list into the class, you will not be added to the class.

The last run of the auto wait-list program is Thursday of the second full week of classes at 10 p.m.

Note that being on a wait list is not a guarantee that you will be added to that class. In many cases, a student already enrolled in the class will need to drop it in order for students on the wait list to move up and into the class as space allows.

If the class or section you want is full

WebReg will offer you the option of enrolling in another open section of that class, or wait-listing the section.

You can only wait-list for one section of a course.

You can't be simultaneously enrolled and wait-listed in different sections of a course.

Use WebReg if you are pre-authorized to enroll in a full class.

Note: Classes you have wait-listed will display in WebReg.

If you change your mind and want to add or wait-list a different section of a class for which you are already enrolled

Check the Schedule of Classes to make sure there are seats available.

Drop the section in which you are already enrolled or wait-listed.

After completing the drop, add or wait-list a different section.

If you want to find out if you were placed into a section from the wait list

If you are enrolled in a wait-listed class, it will be included on "My Schedule" in WebReg . Select it from the list of classes in "My Schedule" and confirm your grading option.

Registrar's Office , email registrar@ucsd.edu or  (858) 534-3150