Financial Literacy

Financial Literacy

Understanding financial skills like budgeting and debt management can help ensure you make the smartest possible decisions to fund your education. Check out the various resources below to help guide and inform you throughout your educational journey.

Financial Literacy & Money Management

Financial Literacy Guidance from Federal Student Aid

Annual Credit Report.com - View your credit reports from each of the three big credit agencies (Equifax, Transunion, and Experian) for free!

Comparing Federal and Private Student Loans

Student Loan Repayment Calculator

Managing Money During College - Not sure how to handle your finances and student aid (grants, scholarships, loans, work-study) while you’re in school?

GradSense Financial Tools - Budget calculator, job tips, helpful links and find out how much student debt makes sense for your degree.

Nerd Wallet Cost of Living Calculator - Want to see how much more/less it will cost to live in a city when you graduate? Check out this calculator.

Mint - See where your money goes.

Identity Theft Resource Center - Do you need help with an identity theft problem? Have a question on what you can do to protect yourself? This site can provide you with one-on-one assistance for all types of identity theft for free.

San Diego Financial Literacy Center - This non-profit organization provides financial literacy videos and workshops through on-site community events to San Diego County residents on a variety of topics. One-on-one, confidential financial consultations and budget analysis are available. Check out their upcoming events .

Videos Resources

Financial Literacy in College

Responsible Borrowing

Specialized Centers & Resources at UC San Diego

Basic Needs Triton Food Pantry Student Promoted Access Center for Education and Service (SPACES)

CARE at the Sexual Assault Resource Center

Student Health Services Student Legal Services

The Zone - A lounge for student well-being Undocumented Student Services

Office For Students With Disabilities

Office for the Prevention of Harassment & Discrimination

Counseling and Psychological Services

Student Veteran Resources Child Care Resources

Office of Academic Support & Instructional Services (OASIS)

Writing Programs and Resources

Housing Resources

UC San Diego Housing Dining Hospitality

Tax Information for Students - The IRS has a web page designated specifically for students.

UC San Diego Campus Card Discounts

Teaching and Learning Commons

Phone Applications

Mint - Free phone app that helps you create budgets, receive alerts for unusual account charges and bill reminders, and get custom tips for reducing fees and saving money. The app gives your free credit score and teaches you how you can improve it now to get the things you want later.

Square Cash - Send and request money for free with this phone app. Financial incentives for referring friends and trying the service. Great way to split meal checks and pay friends back.

VenMo - Similar to Square Cash, but is not as private. Transactions can be posted on the app’s social media feed or Facebook if desired.

Personal Capital - Phone app to easily manage cash flow, track and pay back student loans, or even begin planning for retirement

Consumer Information

Financial Aid Terms

Financial Literacy

Net Price Calculator

Financial Tips for Students

Online Resources