Scholar Services

Ending J-1 Status

Ending Your Status & Departing the U.S.

Please contact your ISEO advisor if you have questions about your status ending.

When's my end date?

The J-1 program end date is on Section #3 of your DS-2019.

In all cases, however, the actual status end date is the date that you stop your approved activity, or the end date on your forms, whichever comes first.

For example, if a J-1 finishes his/her program three months early, then the lawful J-1 status also ends three months early.

What should I do before I depart the U.S.?

Please submit a separation/departure request via iServices as our office is required to notify the appropriate government agencies of your departure.

Please submit the separation/departure request at least 5 business days prior to the separation/departure date.

30-Day Grace Period

J-1 status allows for a 30 day grace period effective immediately after whichever comes first: From the end date on the DS-2019 OR From the end date of your J-1 program activity

From the end date on the DS-2019

From the end date of your J-1 program activity

You may not work or be paid during this period, nor may you depart and reenter the U.S.

Bars & Restrictions

If you are a J-1 Research Scholar , you are subject to the 24-month-bar which will be in effect the day after your Exchange Program ends. Click here for more information on the 24-month-bar.

Click here for more information on the 24-month-bar.

If you have been present in J status , you may be subject to a 12-month-bar before being able to start a new program in the Research Scholar or Professor category. Click here for more information on the 12-month-bar.

Click here for more information on the 12-month-bar.

Transfer to a Different Institution

If you are transferring to another institution, please see Transfer information here.

Maintaining J-1 Status

Extending or Amending Your Status

J-1 Health Insurance

Out of Country Notification

12-Month and 24-Month Bars

Occasional Lectures & Consultations

Ending J-1 Status

Frequently Asked Questions