Emergency Contraception

Emergency Contraception

The emergency contraceptive pill (ECP), often referred to as “Plan B” or the "morning after pill", is a method of preventing pregnancy from occurring after an incident of unprotected intercourse or contraceptive failure (i.e., condom breaks, etc.). The emergency contraceptive pill works by delaying ovulation.

MyWay® and ella®, the brands of ECP carried at Student Health Services (SHS), can be taken up to 72 hours (MyWay) or 120 hours (ella) after unprotected intercourse or contraceptive failure; however, the sooner ECP is taken the more effective it will be. Medication selection is weight-based.

MyWay® (also known as Plan B) does not require a prescription and can be obtained over-the-counter at the SHS Pharmacy . MyWay® costs approximately $20 at Student Health Services, however, if you have a prescription, it is free with UC SHIP. This medication is less effective if your weight is >165 pounds.

ella® requires a prescription and is free with UC SHIP, or $48 without UC SHIP. This medication is less effective if your weight is >195 pounds.

ECP is for emergencies only. Using ECP is less effective at preventing pregnancy than using birth control that is used before or during sex (e.g. birth control pills, condoms, etc.). ECP is not an abortion pill. If you are already pregnant, ECP will not cause an abortion.

The Copper IUD and Mirena IUD can also be used as a method of emergency contraception if placed within 5 days after unprotected intercourse.

For more information or to obtain a prescription for ECP, please contact Student Health via MyStudentChart “ASK A NURSE”, or by calling Student Health at 858-534-3300, or the Group number for your Primary Care provider. You will be directed how to obtain the prescription.

Advance Directives

Alcohol and Other Drugs

Breast & Testicular Health

Conjunctivitis (Pink Eye)

Eating Disorders

Emergency Contraception

Gastroesophageal Reflux Disease (GERD)

Gynecologic Cancers (PDF)

Hepatitis A, B and C

Human Papillomavirus (HPV)

Medication Abortion

Methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA)

Molluscum Contagiosum

Painful Periods (Dysmenorrhea)

Pelvic Inflammatory Disease (PID)

Physical Activity

Plant Dermatitis

Polycystic Ovary Syndrome (PCOS)

Pregnancy Testing

Temporomandibular Joint Disorders (TMJ)

Urinary Tract Infections (UTIs)

Vaginal Infections