Summer Session Cost of Attendance

Summer Session Cost of Attendance

Undergraduate Costs

Review the sections below for a breakdown of direct and indirect costs for undergraduate enrollment in Summer Session at UC San Diego.

Summer Direct Costs (Undergraduate)

Summer Session 2026 Direct Costs

Tuition: Per Unit

Fees:     Per Session

For a detailed breakdown and access to the Summer Session Cost Calculator, please visit Summer Session Tuition and Fees

Summer Indirect Costs (Undergraduate)

Summer Session 2026 Indirect Costs

Estimated Indirect Costs

Living with Parents

Books, course materials, supplies, and equipment: Per Unit

Living, Miscellaneous Personal, Transportation Expenses : Per week

These are estimates, your actual Indirect Costs may vary

Summer Cost of Attendance Example

Cost of Attendance

Living with Parents

Books, course materials, supplies, and equipment

Living, Miscellaneous Personal, Transportation Expenses

Estimated Totals

Summer Cost of Attendance Example

Cost of Attendance

Living with Parents

Books, course materials, supplies, and equipment

Living, Miscellaneous Personal, Transportation Expenses

Estimated Totals

Cost of Attendance (COA) Overview

In general, the Cost of Attendance (COA) includes:

Direct Costs: Charges included in the cost of attendance that the student/family pays directly to the institution. Actual charges may vary by student. For example, students may have different housing options.

Indirect Costs : Estimated expenses in the cost of attendance that are not paid directly to the institution.

Estimated Cost of Attendance amounts are subject to change. Each portion of a student's individual cost of attendance is allocated to the categories listed below:

Summer Session Tuition and Fees: This is a direct cost. For a full breakdown of summer tuition and fee amounts, please visit Summer Session Tuition and Fees .

Books, course materials, supplies, and equipment: This is an indirect cost . It is an estimated average of the cost of books and school supplies (e.g., writing utensils, paper, course textbooks, etc.) while attending school.

Living Expenses Food and Housing (Living expenses) includes housing fees or rent, utilities, telephone, meals, and groceries. The three available housing types for undergraduates are as follows: On-Campus Housing For students with a recognized contract through UC San Diego Housing-Summer and who pay costs via your student account . This is a direct cost . Off-Campus Housing For students who sign a lease and typically pay rent on a month-to-month basis directly to the leasing entity, this is an indirect cost as it is not charged to the student’s university student account. Living with Parents A student who is living with a relative, usually a parent, is considered to be living at home. On the financial aid application, this is called Commuter. This expense is an indirect cost as it is not charged to the student’s university student account. Miscellaneous Personal Expenses This is an indirect cost . It is an estimated average of the cost of incidental expenses such as personal hygiene, laundry, clothing, and reasonable entertainment. Please note this section of the cost of attendance and financial aid may be adjusted if the student is enrolled less than half-time (i.e. less than 6 units). Transportation Expenses This is an indirect cost . It is an estimated average of transportation costs between campus, residences, place of work, and traveling to and from home on breaks, local transportation costs, etc., while attending school.

Food and Housing (Living expenses) includes housing fees or rent, utilities, telephone, meals, and groceries. The three available housing types for undergraduates are as follows:

On-Campus Housing For students with a recognized contract through UC San Diego Housing-Summer and who pay costs via your student account . This is a direct cost .

For students with a recognized contract through UC San Diego Housing-Summer and who pay costs via your student account . This is a direct cost .

Off-Campus Housing For students who sign a lease and typically pay rent on a month-to-month basis directly to the leasing entity, this is an indirect cost as it is not charged to the student’s university student account.

For students who sign a lease and typically pay rent on a month-to-month basis directly to the leasing entity, this is an indirect cost as it is not charged to the student’s university student account.

Living with Parents A student who is living with a relative, usually a parent, is considered to be living at home. On the financial aid application, this is called Commuter. This expense is an indirect cost as it is not charged to the student’s university student account.

A student who is living with a relative, usually a parent, is considered to be living at home. On the financial aid application, this is called Commuter. This expense is an indirect cost as it is not charged to the student’s university student account.

Miscellaneous Personal Expenses This is an indirect cost . It is an estimated average of the cost of incidental expenses such as personal hygiene, laundry, clothing, and reasonable entertainment. Please note this section of the cost of attendance and financial aid may be adjusted if the student is enrolled less than half-time (i.e. less than 6 units).

This is an indirect cost . It is an estimated average of the cost of incidental expenses such as personal hygiene, laundry, clothing, and reasonable entertainment. Please note this section of the cost of attendance and financial aid may be adjusted if the student is enrolled less than half-time (i.e. less than 6 units).

Transportation Expenses This is an indirect cost . It is an estimated average of transportation costs between campus, residences, place of work, and traveling to and from home on breaks, local transportation costs, etc., while attending school.

This is an indirect cost . It is an estimated average of transportation costs between campus, residences, place of work, and traveling to and from home on breaks, local transportation costs, etc., while attending school.

Cost of Attendance

Helpful Websites